@database Multiview.guide
@remark ENGLISH VERSION
@author Kevin Winspear
@(c) "Copyright © 1994 K.Winspear."
@$VER: Multiview.guide(29/06/94)
@wordwrap
@font topaz.font 8

@node Main "MultiView"

                                Multiview

        Multiview enables you to view files from Workbench without having
to load up the application program which created the file. With MultiView
you can view picture files, text files, AmigaGuide help files and animated
graphics files and listen to sounds files.

        To view a file, double-click on the MultiView icon, which brings up
a requester asking for the file you wish to view. Scroll through the list
of drawers and files and use the Pattern, Drawer and Files gadgets to
specify the file. Open-opens the selected file, and Cancel exits MultiView
without opening a file. The Control menu can also be used to select file.
The Next Name menu item goes through the files alphabetically, Last Name 
goes back to the previous file name. The keyboard short-cuts are Right 
Amiga-N and Right Amiga-L. Restore makes the file requester show the 
default file list, that is the Workbench disk, and has the keyboard 
short-cut Right Amiga-R. The Parent and Volume menu item duplicate the 
Parent and Volume gadgets on the requester and have the keyboard short-cut 
Right Amiga-P and Right Amiga-V. Delete-deletes the selected file and has 
the keyboard short-cut is Right Amiga-D. OK and Cancel duplicate the Open 
and Cancel options on the file requester and have the short-cut keys Right
Amiga-O and Right Amiga-C.

        The display window lets you move through the file you are viewing
using the scroll arrows and sliders. Once you are viewing a file there are
four new menus: Project, Edit, Windows and Settings.

        Project Menu: Opens (keyboard short-cut Right Amiga-O) gives you a
file requester where you can choose another file to view. Save As (Right
Amiga-A) saves the file as either an ILBM or Text file. Print (Right
Amiga-P) prints selected blocks or files. About (Right Amiga-?) tells you
what version of MultiView you're running and what type of file you're
viewing. Quit (Right Amiga-Q) exits MultiView.

     Edit Menu: Mark (Right Amiga-B) lets you select a block from a picture
file by dragging a box around the area you wish to mark. Copy (Right
Amiga-C) copies the selected block to the Clipboard in the RAM: device and
deselects the Block. If no block is selected the whole file is copied.
Select All (Right Amiga-[) selected the whole file and Clear Selected
(Right Amiga-]) clears the selected block or file.

        Window Menu: You can change the size of the viewing window using
the Minimize, Normal and Maximise options in the Windows menu. The file
itself remains the same size.

        Settings: There is one menu item in this menu, Saves As Defaults.
This saves the size, position and location of the window for next time you
open a file.

                                Tool Types

        The Tool Types for MultiView are:-

        CLIPBOARD: Views the clipboard instead of the file.

        CLIPUNIT:=<number> Specify the Clipboard unit to use when the
CLIPBOARD keyboard. The range is form 0 to 255, with 0 as the default.

        SCREEN: The file appears on its own screen, using the palette and
resolution of the file. The default  is  with  this turned off, so that you
see the file in a Workbench window using the colours and resolution of the
Workbench.

        PUBSCREEN:=<name> The file opens on the named public screen.

        FONTNAME:=<name of font> Specifies the font to use when viewing
text file. Leave off the .font extension when specifying the font.

        FONTSIZE:=<size of font> Specifies the size of the font to use when
viewing files (in point size).

        BOOKMARK: Goes to the object and position indicated by the
bookmark.

        BACKDROP: Makes the window a backdrop window when viewing text
files.

        WINDOW: Opens the MultiView window without an object. This enables
you to put MultiView window without an object. This enables you to put
MultiView in the WBStartup directory.


                        @{"     " system "extrasx.x:utilities1200/Multiview1200.pic"}  See Multiview Picture
                        @{"     " quit}  Now I Know? (Close Window)


@endnode


