@database cubic_guide.Guide
@author "Matt Gorner"
@(c) "Copyright © 1996 Matt Gorner"
@$VER: Cubic Guide v1.0 (2.10.96)
@font topaz.font 8
@wordwrap
@toc Main

@node Main "Contents"


 Welcome to the Cubic archive...
 
 
    @{" " Link 1} Disclaimer
    
    @{" " Link a} Introduction
    
    @{" " Link b} About this archive
    
    @{" " Link c} About the author


 Copyright © 1996 Matt Gorner

@next 1
@prev Main
   
@endnode

@node 1 "Disclaimer"


 Disclaimer:
 

 This archive is in no way linked with any of the work currently undertaken
 by either Amiga Technologies, VIScorp, Phase 5, PIOS or anyone else who
 might purchase the Amiga in the future!
 
 It is a seperate undertaking designed to generate interest within the
 Amiga community, or any of the afore mention companies.

@next a
@prev Main

@endnode


@node a "Introduction"


 Introduction:

 
 The Amiga is an outdated, dead machine.
 
 People must be mad to continue clinging to an unsupported, non-standard
 platform such as the Amiga.
 
 This is how most people see the Amiga platform.
 
 What they never ask is @{b}why@{ub} Amiga owners still use their machines
 insatiably, even if they can afford to buy, outright, another machine.

 Why?
 
 Because the Amiga has a unique character, and this character is all to do
 with the way the Amiga works, its operating system.
 
 Let's make it clear, it is by no means perfect, it's incomplete, they've
 done a bunch of things wrong, but it has the seed, the potential, to become
 a lot better.
 
 If you conducted a survey regarding the most used operating systems on the
 planet today, I guarantee the results would show Windows and MacOS in first
 and second place respectively.
 
 The reasons are debatable, but most people use Windows because most people
 have PCs, which won over the Mac in the 70s and 80s as THE machine to have,
 basically because the Mac was too expensive, and had little software to
 start with, whereas the PC was cheaper and had more software available.
 
 The scenario was very similar to the BetaMax/VHS story, VHS won the war by
 sheer numbers, despite the fact that BetaMax was better quality.
 
 After using both operating systems for some time, it becomes clear which
 is better suited to which tasks, and where they are better than the Amigas
 operating system.
 
 The Mac isn't liked by technical people.
 This is because it's difficult to probe around and change things without
 the OS treating you like an idiot, and technical people become
 frustrated with this.
 
 Windows isn't liked by people who like the Mac because it's too messy
 to maintain, move a file and the whole thing falls over! Technically
 orientated people love this, because they can take pleasure in knowing
 that novice users don't understand how the whole thing works, and rely
 on technical people to help them out.
 
 You don't believe me? Okay, simple test, go into any bookshop, find the
 computing section, now look at the sheer number of books dedicated to
 helping people out with Windows (in fact anything written by Microsoft!)

 See! I told you so!
 
 So take the experimentation side of Windows, dilute it, add the way a
 Mac works, add true plug-and-play hardware, add pre-emptive multitasking,
 knock a third of the price (unless you're buying an A4000T!)  and there
 you have it, and Amiga 1200!
 
 So, what this all means is the Amigas OS hits an almost perfect balance
 between user-friendliness and power, so much in fact, that millions of
 people across the world won't part for anything else.
 
 I truly believe this is why the Amiga is still alive despite the total
 failure of several companies to do anything with it.
 
 If there is ever to be a PowerPC Amiga, it will be unrivalled in speed,
 because the Amigas OS is so lean, so efficient that nothing will come
 close to outpacing it.
 
 The only thing it needs is a severe face lift, and greater support for
 industry standards, then maybe some people might start developing for it.
 
 Thank you for listening...

@next b
@prev 1

@endnode


@node b "About this archive..."


 About this archive...
 

 This archive contains "screen shots" of how the interface might develop.
 There are some points I'd like to mention about the direction I chose
 when developing this archive.
 
 Firstly, I didn't want to blend Windows '95 with the MacOS like some
 other archives on the Aminet, because it's not true to the Amiga, do
 this and you lose what makes the Amiga the Amiga, personally I don't
 think there is anything inherently wrong with how the Amiga operating
 system "works", it's use of layered, pull down screens (something unique
 to how the Amiga) make it easy to use. It just needs some spit and
 polish here and there, and a few minor changes to some parts.
 
 That said, there are a few ideas that were taken from the other sources
 because they work so well, but more importantly, because they @{b}work
 well with the Amiga@{ub} something other archives don't take into
 account, the obvious example is using the Win'95 taskbar as an integral
 part of the AmigaOS, but not only is it obviously nicked from Windows,
 but it's very un-Amiga like.
 
 The look and feel of the AmigaOS has been carried across into the Cubic
 look, but with more detail added to the 3-Dimensional aspect of the
 interface, some parts have been re-drawn, for example the ability to
 add a resize gadget to a window without having to extend the borders
 all the way along the window.
 
 You may also think that it would look better with textures behind the
 buttons, windows, scroll bars etc. to make it look "really cool".
 From a practical point of view, this is @{b}bad GUI design@{ub} (MUI
 has a lot to answer for this!) It detracts from the information
 presented to the user and actually makes the interface less easy to
 use, which is where some people are mislead into thinking that MUI
 "makes programs easier to use" this is not true, and this is NOT
 the reason why MUI was developed, it was developed to make
 programming easier for the developer, and offer flexibility to the
 user, used correctly it WOULD make programs easier to use but most
 (not all) of the programmers who use MUI haven't got a clue when
 it comes to developing user interfaces that are well laid out, present
 the correct information at the correct time, offer a small learning
 curve by not cluttering the user interface etc.

 Cubic is designed to be easy to use, look professional and offer more
 options to the programmer. The ultimate goal would be to have
 consistent (for the user) looking programs that look the part, this
 is one of the problems with Amiga applications, they work well,
 are useful, but have childish, badly designed front-ends.
 
 A friend of mine once said that he thought the Amiga was a childs
 computer because it had big icons and a large mouse pointer! This
 is because he was looking at it in 320x256 lowres, and you know
 he was right.
 
 Obviously the Cubic look isn't going to be to everyones taste, but
 it offers a more practical direction than most of the attempts I
 have seen, and because it has a suite of screen shots it has one
 thing that others don't, consistency, none of these pie in the sky
 one off "drawings".
 
 Anyway, hope you enjoy it.
 
 
 Regards
 
 Matt.

@next c
@prev a

@endnode

@node c "About the the author..."

 
 About the the author...
 
 
 In case you were wondering what authority I have in creating such
 an archive, well let me put your mind to rest. I hold a diploma
 in 3D Design, an honours degree in consumer product design, I am
 a full-time product designer with a respected product design
 consultant (who I won't name because they are nothing to do with
 this, and may cause confusion.)
 
 In my spare time I program C on the Amiga, mess with 3D stuff in
 Lightwave, and produce the odd protracker module.
 
 Because of my profession I use Apple Macs and PCs at work, so I
 have the added advantage of being able to look at the faults of
 the Amiga objectively, rather than with a die-hard attitude that
 some people have, I then used this experience constructively to
 help with the development of this archive.
 
 You may think I'm sounding off here, but I think my background
 makes this archive somewhat different than the others, and
 should be stated.


 How to contact the author:


 Should you decide to contact me regarding any of this work,
 or anything else for that matter.
 
 I can be found at this address:
 
    Matt Gorner
    Flat 3
    17 Oxford Street
    Leamington Spa
    Warwickshire
    CV32 4RA
 
    tel: +0044 (0)1926 88 29 40

@next Main
@prev b
   
@endnode
