@database "The future of MagicWB"
@author "Martin Huttenloher"
@font helvetica.font 15

@node main "The future of MagicWB"
@font Helvetica.font 24





     @{" The future of MagicWB " link future}.................will there be any?





     @{" Die Zukunft von MagicWB " link zukunft}.......wird es eine geben?

@endnode
@node future "The future of MagicWB -- will there be any?"
@toc main

I would like to use this moment to speak to all MagicWB users as the
author of my product.

A lot of users have asked me in the last months when they could expect a
new MagicWB version with a new color scheme and more colors. With the
release of MagicWB 2.0 I have already agreed that I will continue the
development of MagicWB if the response to MagicWB 2.0 would be good.

Unfortunately I am more than disappointed at the lack of readiness of the 
Amiga users to support good shareware (that they use every day). In the 
last months I have well monitored the spreading and establishment of
MagicWB and I can almost find it on any Amiga (even in department 
stores). Various tests prove it again and again that so many users do use 
MagicWB 2.0 on the one hand, but only few of them actually registered it on 
the other hand.

Only a fraction has registered MagicWB during the last year (i.e. 0.04% of
all potential users have registered it). I would like to express my gratitude
here to all those who were honest enough to support this project with their
registrations.

But to all those who have used MagicWB unregistered for quite some time now 
and who read this text, I would like to say the following:

You can not just expect others to register and support the further
development of MagicWB, since other people unfortunately think the
same way and this thinking has the result that I am no longer willing to
invest so much time in a new version when I get so little feedback from
the unregistered MagicWB users.

A new MagicWB costs me a lot of time and hard work and I expect to receive
a certain incentive to do this by brushing up my pocket money. I am not
working on MagicWB to improve it for myself, instead I do this because the
users urge me to do it and because they reward me for doing it through
their registrations. However it is not worth the energy and time any longer
if no one registers MagicWB.

There are already specific plans in existence (since 1995) for a
totally new and more colorful MagicWB. But I have frozen this project
temporarily because I can not see a sense in it if only a fraction will
register it. However I would really prefer to continue the MagicWB
project... but for nothing I also won't do a thing!

                                            ----------

Why am I writing this text? Well, I intend to address especially those who
have not registered MagicWB to this day and give them food for thought:
Without your support for MagicWB I will not continue it. One can not
always take without giving. Shareware is based on mutuality ("to share").

I will now make this offer: This new "public release" of MagicWB 2.0 is
simultaneously a test. If this test is successful there will be a new
MagicWB (3.0?).

This is the last opportunity to tell me that you use MagicWB, that you
like it and that you are interested in future releases of MagicWB by
registering and thereby supporting it. Unfortunately I do not have any
other possibilities to find that out.

@{b}This test extends to the coming months (and starts at the day of the
release of this version). The amount of new-registered users in this
test period will be decisive of the future of MagicWB and
if I will continue my work on it. If the amount of registrations within this
period is not going to improve I will interpret this as a "no" to any
further development of MagicWB and will eventually have to stop this
project (as much as I would regret it).@{ub}

It is indeed pitiable that I have to write this, but as always the subject
"software pirating" also fits here: The more successful a software product
is the more is it going to be pirated with the result that more and more
users do not recognize the moral sense of duty to purchase a product they
use. With this attitude you will destroy more than you think (or intend).

@{" The test begins . . . " system "/registration app=mwb"}

Martin Huttenloher
in June 1997

@endnode
@node zukunft "Die Zukunft von MagicWB -- wird es eine geben?"
@toc main

Ich möchte an dieser Stelle als Autor zu allen MagicWB-Usern sprechen.

Viele User haben mich in den vergangenen Monaten angesprochen und mich
gefragt, wann es denn die nächste MagicWB Version mit einem neuen Farb-
Schema und mehr Farben geben wird. Ich habe schon bei der Veröffentlichung
der MagicWB 2.0 zugesagt, daß ich an MagicWB weiterarbeiten werde, wenn
die Reaktion auf MagicWB 2.0 gut ist.

Leider bin ich mehr als enttäuscht über die Bereitwilligkeit der Amiga-User
gute Shareware (die sie jeden Tag benutzen) zu unterstützen. Ich habe in
den letzten Monaten die Verbreitung von MagicWB gut mitverfolgt und ent-
decke es fast auf jedem Amiga (sogar in Kaufhäusern). Stichproben zeigen
immer wieder, wieviele User MagicWB 2.0 doch benutzen, aber wie wenig
von Ihnen sich dafür registriert haben.

Ein Bruchteil hat sich innerhalb des letzten Jahres registrieren lassen
(0.04% von allen möglichen Benutzern von MagicWB haben sich registriert).
An dieser Stelle ein Dankeschön an alle, die so ehrlich waren und MagicWB
mit ihrer Registrierung unterstützten.

Aber allen anderen, die MagicWB schon seit längerer Zeit unregistriert
benutzen und diesen Text lesen, möchte ich folgendes sagen:

Ihr könnt nicht darauf hoffen, daß die "anderen" sich registrieren lassen
und damit eine Weiterentwicklung von MagicWB unterstützen. Denn leider
denken dies zu viele, und das Resultat ist dabei, daß ich einfach keine Lust
mehr habe, soviel Arbeit in eine neue Version zu investieren, wenn ich
sehe, daß ich so wenig Resonanz von den unregistrierten MagicWB-
Usern bekomme.

Eine neue MagicWB Version kostet mich viel Zeit und Arbeit und ich will
dafür auch einen Anreiz bekommen, indem ich mein Taschengeld aufbessern
kann. Ich arbeite nicht an MagicWB um es für mich zu verbessern, sondern
weil die User es fordern und es mir durch ihre Registrierungen danken.
Allerdings lohnt sich der große Aufwand für mich nicht mehr, wenn sich
keiner mehr registrieren läßt.

Es existieren schon (seit 1995) konkrete Pläne für eine komplett
neue und farbenreichere MagicWB. Ich habe aber dieses Projekt vorläufig
eingefroren, da ich keinen Sinn mehr darin sehe, wenn sich nur ein Bruch-
teil dafür registrieren lassen wird. Allerdings möchte ich schon gerne an
MagicWB weiterarbeiten... aber für nichts tue auch ich nichts!

                                            ----------

Warum schreibe ich diesen Text? Ich will damit vor allem diejenigen, die
MagicWB bis heute nicht registriert haben, zum Nachdenken anregen: Ohne
Eure Unterstützung mache ich nicht weiter. Man kann nicht immer nur
nehmen ohne zu geben. Shareware beruht auf Gegenseitigkeit ("to share").

Ich mache nun folgendes Angebot: Diese neue "public release" von
MagicWB 2.0 nutze ich auch als einen Test. Ist der Test erfolgreich, gibt
es eine neue MagicWB (3.0?).

Dies ist die letzte Gelegenheit mir zu sagen, daß Ihr MagicWB nutzt, daß es
Euch gefällt und daß Ihr eine Weiterentwicklung von MagicWB mit Eurer
Registrierung unterstützen wollt. Ich habe leider keine andere Möglichkeit
dies sonst zu erfahren.

@{b}Der Test erstreckt sich über die kommenden Monate (ab der Veröffent-
lichung dieser Version). Die Anzahl der neu-registrierten Benutzer in
diesem Zeitraum wird ausschlaggebend dafür sein, ob ich an MagicWB
weiterarbeite. Falls sich die Registrierungen innerhalb dieses Zeitraums
nicht verbessern, interpretiere ich das als ein "Nein" zu einer Weiterent-
wicklung von MagicWB und werde dieses Projekt (so leid es mir tut) ein-
stellen müssen.@{ub}

Es ist sehr bedauerlich, daß ich dies schreiben muß, aber wie so oft trifft
das Thema "Raubkopieren" auch hier zu: Je erfolgreicher ein Produkt ist,
umso mehr wird es raubkopiert und umso weniger User sehen daher die
moralische Pflicht, ein Produkt, das sie benutzen auch zu kaufen. Mit
dieser Einstellung machen sie mehr kaputt als sie denken (bzw. wollen).

@{" Der Test beginnt . . . " system "/registration app=mwb"}

Martin Huttenloher
im Juni 1997

@endnode

