@DATABASE "Virus Info Base"
@NODE MAIN "Excreminator 1"
     Name         : Excreminator 1

     Aliases      : No aliases

     Clone/origin : No clone

     Type/Size    : Trojan bomb /2392 bytes

     Symptoms     : The disk drive heads starts to step ahead

     Discovered   : 24-02-92

     Way to infect: No spreading

     Rating       : Very dangerous, but infect only floppy disks

     Kickstarts   : Infect by using 1.2, 1.3, 2.0, 3.0

     Damage       : Drive heads and disks, if you are very unluckey

     Manifestation: Pretend to be a viruskiller

     Removal      : See below

     Comments     : The  Excreminator  1 is  running at Kickstart 2.04/3.0
                    too!!  No  spreading  routine  and  no hidden vectors.
                    Pretends  to  be a  viruskiller,  but  you should know
                    better. 


                    When  activated  the  virus will search  for  the name
                    exec.library.  When  not found  it will copy itself to
                    that  name.( The system exec.library  is  resident  in
                    the KickRom.boot )

                    On your screen you get the message: 

                    -*- Excreminator V1.0 -*- Written by 'The
                    Lame Trio (TLT)' in 1991 Memory Check ...
                    Checking BootBlock for Virus ...  OK! 
                    No Virus found!


                    Some  copies  can  pop-up a requester which urges you:


                    remove the writeprotection


                    If  you  are starting the virus it tries to create a 4
                    bytes  long  file  in the LIBS directory with the name
                    "exec.library".  This  file  contains only the hexcode
                    5.  If you are now starting the file again, ithe virus
                    decreases the value until it becames 0. Then the virus
                    tries to execute a quick-format...ALL disk drive heads
                    steps ahead.


                    The file  named  exec.library will exist some place on
                    a  device. ( disk ).  This  file  contents  a  counter
                    which  will call itself recursive  when the counter is
                    decreased  to  less  than five.  Every time it reaches
                    zero  the  drive engine(s) will be turned on. (On that
                    stage it is an endless loop ).



                    Result: (Not a Dos disk) and Display-Alert. This disks
                    or files CANNOT.. be repaired.  Then an alert appeares
                    giving out this message:


                    ALL DRIVES FUCKED UP! LAME SUCKER !!!
                    Use a better Viruskiller next time! e.g.
                    Excreminator II HAHAHA and so on. 
                    Then you get a reset.


                    Click on this gadget to see a  @{" Demo " SYSTEM V-IFF:Excreminator1} of the 
                    Excreminator 1 virus. Push left mouse button to 
                    return.


                    The  disk  drive  hardware is directly programmed. All
                    infected disks are overwritten by nonsens.


                    ADVICE: 
                    Remove all 3 files very quick and replace the
                    original files again, if possible:

                          1. The origin virus (2392 bytes)

                          2. The Libs/exec.library (4 bytes)

                          3. The file in the startup-sequence entry called
                             "Excreminator"  or  whatever  this trojan is 
                             called.



     Way to infect  When  activated  the virus  will search  for  the name
                    exec.library.  When  not found  it will copy itself to
                    that  name.( The system exec.library  is  resident  in
                    the KickRom.boot ).  It's  probably not a good idea to
                    copy the entire diskette  to a harddisk,  included the
                    StartUp-Sequence  if  you get  a new  program.


     Damage         If  you  not remove the virus,  the diskdrive possibly
                    can  be overstrained.  It's  a little  uncertain if it
                    acts  in the  same  manner  as  some games  where  you
                    have to change  the disk, regardless of the diskdrives
                    state.

     Manifestation  A  file  named  exec.library  will exist some place on
                    a  device. ( disk ).  This  file  contents  a  counter
                    which  will call itself recursive  when the counter is
                    decreased  to  less  than five.  Every time it reaches
                    zero  the  drive  engine(s) will  be  turned  on.
                    ( On  that  stage  it  is  an  endless  loop ).



 ELS 11-93 & TBH 04-94
@ENDNODE
