@database "Amiga Choose Linux"
@wordwrap
@node main "Amiga Choose Linux over QNX"

@{B}Amiga Ditch QNX in favour of Linux@{ub}

Welcome to the World Of Amiga evaluation of the Linux/QNX situation
which happened in early July.

For those who don't know what's going on, on the 9th July 1999,
it became public knowledge that Amiga had ditched QNX in favour
of the Linux kernel for their next generation OS. They were going
to keep the information with-held untl the technology brief was
released, but QNX made various statements which caused Jim Collas
of Amiga to make this @{"statement." link jc1}

This set the ball rolling, the Amiga public were predicting doom
and gloom, and the death of the Amiga, etc. Magazine editors trying
to calm people down (well, paper mags anyway). @{"Here" link woag} is the
definitive WOA guide to the Linux decision, and what it means for
you.

And it seemed that QNX had posted various pieces of information about
their progress in the OS for the NG Amiga on to their site. You
can read that @{"here" link qnx1}. Screenshots included.

After a day of speculation, which, it seemed, Jim Collas had been
monitoring very closely, we finally got some feedback from him, which
you can read @{"here" link jc2}.

Afterwards, various people offered their own opinions on the subject,
including @{"this" link op1} from Jim himself on the comp.sys.amiga.misc
newgroup, where he was replying to someone supporting the Linux
movement. We also have the opinion of @{"Fleecy Moss" link op2} who used to work
for Amiga.

Collas posted numerous messages to comp.sys.amiga.misc during this saga
including @{"these" link csam} postings...

A few days after all the drama had died down, we were treated to a
view from Holger Kruse. Click @{"here" link ho} to see it.

@endnode
@node ho "Holger's View"

@{b}Holger's View@{ub}

That is one reason, but not the only one. Actually, as far as networking
goes: the networking part of the kernel is run both on the schedule of
user processes and from interrupts, with locking whenever shared structures
are accessed. This means some code runs outside of what could even be
considered a process or a thread, so the term "multithreading" does not
really apply. The networking code in the kernel IS reentrant, but requires
mutual exclusion in many places to protect the very entangled data structures
needed for networking. The networking code is certainly not singlethreaded
in the same sense this term is used in filesystems (meaning that a chain of
operations is executed successively, in a non-overlapping fashion). The
networking code does support an arbitrary number of data transmissions in
parallel, with mutual exclusion whenever shared data structures need to be
modified.

A big problem is that the TCP/IP code in Linux is not BSD-derived, but
adapted from some other experimental third-party implementation. Rumor has
it Linus misinterpreted the BSD licensing conditions and decided not to
use their code because of that.

As a result the TCP/IP code in Linux is by far the worst in the industry,
worse even than the severely broken code in Win-NT/98. Its performance does
not scale well, in particular under congestion, and bugs in the kernel are
holding back the deployment of new Internet protocols because of
interoperability problems, and are curbing performance on the Internet.
See recent RFCs on "Known TCP implementation problems". They don't mention
Linux there explicitly, but many of the problems listed ARE caused by Linux.
Miami contains special code in four places only to work around known bugs
in Linux and maintain interoperability. Add to that the various bugs in the
Linux TCP/IP code typically caused by race conditions or unhandled errors
(things like TCP connections remaining in CLOSE_WAIT indefinitely).

Plus with all of the new developments (6Bone, MBone, QBone, Internet-2,
NGI etc.) Linux is more or less left out in the dark, because most of the
code developed these days is for BSD and cannot be used with Linux. To some
extent the Linux community tries to make up for that by reimplementing some
stuff from scratch, from the specs, but the results are often too buggy,
incomplete, and based on obsolete specs, because Linux people are not
involved much in the IETF standards track process, and Linux is not embraced
by the academic community in the same way as many of the BSD-derived stacks
(e.g. Solaris), so their code is usually not engineered and tested as well.
See the problems with the IPv6 code in Linux for instance.

Compare that to the stacks based on BSD (these days usually 4.4BSD-Lite2,
FreeBSD 2.x/3.x or NetBSD). Those stacks are supported by most major players
in the industry, and new developments are backed financially, e.g. in the
KAME project (IPv6 and IPsec, backed by Toshiba, among others). The Linux
people on the other hand cannot even get their current IPv4 TCP code to
fully comply with specs. Still lots of open bugs. I very much doubt that
they will have the resources to catch up with the quick development in BSD
and Win-NT/98. Microsoft just rolled out a new IPv6 beta kernel which is
supposed to be both Internet-2-ready and 6Bone-ready. KAME is releasing
IPv6 kernel snapshots on a weekly basis.

The only non-BSD TCP/IP implementation (besides integrated ones like Cisco),
that is backed well financially and has a clear future is the one by
Microsoft, of course. I would prefer that over Linux, in spite of its bugs,
because at least Microsoft is showing some commitment in this area (trying
to become an even more major player in networking over the next decade).

At the moment these differences and problems are not very noticable in
everyday operation, because people can still get along with older IPv4
implementations on the current "old Internet". However that will change
soon. With the transition to ADSL/cable modems and digital video across
IP, and with the transition to IPv6 and IPv4-based QoS there will be a
break in compatibility. Old stacks will still be able to use current
services (www etc.), but new services will require new stacks. The first
ISPs are now already offering IPv6 access, most router manufacturers are
offering it as upgrades, and my guess is that the release of Windows-2000
will start an avalanche of changes in Internet protocols (including QoS,
high-bandwidth video-streaming and IPv6), that may very well cut non-BSD
and non-Microsoft stacks (and unmaintained stacks) off from new Internet
features, in much the same way this happened when a few years ago
"intelligent PPP login" with PAP/CHAP and DHCP (for ADSL/cable modems)
became required features. All of this will probably happen within the
next 2-3 years, i.e. in a time frame that will be very crucial for the
success of the AmigaNG.

It is unclear how/if Linux fits into these changes. They are way behind
at the moment, and the Linux people seem to concentrate more on the
"here and now" (writing drivers for new boards etc.) and on marketing than
on research, protocol design and interoperability testing of future
standards and features. For BSD it is quite clear though: INRIA and KAME
have been testing these features for quite a while, both projects will
converge soon, and all BSD-based stacks will most likely be ready quite
quickly. That includes the stack used in QNX (4.4BSD-Lite2), btw.

My major objection to Linux (in addition to all of the valid objections
Dave already mentioned, of course) is: For the kind of multimedia
convergence box that attempts to integrate high-performance networking
and audio/video, the TCP/IP kernel is one of the most crucial parts of
the kernel, and at the same time one of the most complicated and fragile
parts. It cannot be replaced later, so the choice of a kernel is also
very much the choice of an TCP/IP implementation (except with extremely
modular kernels like QNX or even AmigaOS, where you can just "plug in"
a new stack at any later time).

Given that, why did Amiga Inc. choose the ONLY kernel in the market that
has a rather bad TCP/IP implementation AND lacks professional support
for it ? If they really want to use a big macrokernel (which I still
think is a huge mistake), then they should have at least gone with one of
the free BSD kernels. At least they would get decent TCP/IP code with
it which is properly documented, tested and extensible, plus at the kernel
level they would basically get all the features and functionality Linux
offers.

--
Holger Kruse kruse@nordicglobal.com
http://www.nordicglobal.com
NO COMMERCIAL SOLICITATION !



@endnode
@node csa1 "comp.sys.amiga.misc"

@{b}Subject: Stop Attacking Jim Collas Personally
@{b}From: Aram Iskenderian
@{ub}
Gentlemen,

This is really annoying, we have the man who makes decisions at Amiga
talking here with us, listening to our ideas, he's didn't do anything
to deserve this pathetic and childish insulting, can we keep it simple
and civil?

I for one am annoyed, angry, but I cannot see anything that justifies
insulting Jim to this level which shows that we are only a bunch of
uncivilized retards and fanatics.

Please, everyone is entitled to his opinion, but when you write try to
express yourself and your opinion with some clean language.

All these f**K Jim, and f**k Collas threads are going nowhere, and if
you need to reply to someone please consider renaming the thread.

Thanks to all the people who already did that.

The decision has been made, and blasting Amiga or insulting Jim will
do nothing but make us all look bad.

And those who are posting the usual(I'm off to another platform), I'm
sorry that you are making such a decision, but please do not hang your
decision on the latest announcement, we've been in this situation for
years.

I am waiting for the technology breif, and I suggest that everyone
also does.

Thank you all.


--
Aram Iskenderian.
Please note the new email address.
**********@************.earthlink.net
Enjoying the speed of ADSL....

@{"Read Reply" link csa2}

@endnode
@node csa2 "comp.sys.amiga.misc"

@{b}Subject: Stop Attacking Jim Collas Personally
@{b}From: Fleecy Moss
@{ub}
Well said. From the times I have chatted to him, and met with him,
Jim has always been a courteous person. We owe him at least
the same respect.

We can, and will have our opinions about his, Amiga Inc's or
Gateway's decision, and I have always had my doubts about
whether they really understand the community or where it
wants to go, as opposed to where its parent company wants to
go, but that is another matter.

Defend, attack or ponder on the decisions and the strategy,
not the messenger.

@endnode
@node csa3 "comp.sys.amiga.misc"

@{b}Subject: Some clarification from Amiga
@{b}From: Jim Collas
@{ub}
As you can imagine, I have been following the newsgroups closely as you
discuss the Linux decision. The personal attacks on me are discouraging but
I can't blame some people for being very angry. It's understandable given
what the Amiga community has been through in the last few years and the
way this situation unfolded. I wish I could have managed this situation
better but I have been traveling a lot and QNX blindsided us with their
announcement. As I mentioned in an earlier post, we were planning to
communicate the Linux decision along with our technical brief. I don't want
to argue the Linux decision here because you need to understand the full
picture first and the technical brief should help this. I would like to
address a few misunderstandings that I am seeing in the postings. Whether
you agree with the Linux decision or not, misinformation and inaccurate
speculation will only confuse the situation. I would like you to understand
the following:

There have been multiple comments about how Amiga led QNX on and then
dumped them. Some of these comments imply a lack of ethics on our part.
These comments aren't accurately portaying the situation. I am very ethical
and won't tolerate unethical behavior at Amiga. We delt with QNX ethically
and above the table. People shouldn't assume that the Amiga/QNX deal died
solely because of Amiga. There were differences of opinion on strategy,
implementation, and licensing terms that we spent months and months trying
to negotiate. I stepped into the middle of this and was personally involved
in the negotiations for over four months. Linux started as our back-up
plan, just in case we couldn't reach an agreement, and it ended up as the
preferred choice. I can't go into details but remember that things aren't
as simple as they seem from the outside.

The comments that bother me the most are the ones questioning my ethics and
motivations. With Amiga, I inherited a situation that has been mismanaged
for years and a community that has justifiably lost its patience. It is
frustrating that people associate me with all of the mistakes and delays of
the past. This gives me very little room for errors and corrections. I have
been president of Amiga for five months and this Linux decision is the only
major shift I have made. In hindsight, I could have better managed the
communication on this situation but there is an incredible amount going on
and I am only human. I will screw some things up. The surprise from QNX
didn't help. I have been open and straight with the community in every
situation. Amiga has made more progress in the last five months than had
been made in the last five years. Remember that we aren't just developing
a product. We are building a substantial company to compete in this
aggressive industry. This in itself is no small task. In summary, give me
a break. Please.

There are many inaccurate perceptions about the size, stability, and
performance of the Linux OS. I initially ruled out Linux because I had the
same perceptions. There are so many options and configurations with Linux
that it is difficult for people to get a handle on it. This is why we spent
months evaluating it before making any conclusions. The core Linux OS is
better than people think it is. QNX is better at a few things and Linux is
better at others. Try not to make assumptions about the current state of
Linux without details. I have asked Allan Havemose to summarize our Linux
evaluation for you.

I hope this will help clear up some of the inaccurate statements. I expect
that some people will continue to slam me and our decision. I understand
that this level of frustration doesn't go away over night. All I ask is for
people to take the time to read and understand our technology brief when
it comes out.

Sincerely,
Jim

@endnode
@node csa4 "comp.sys.amiga.misc"

@{b}Subject: QNX announcement is unclear
@{b}From: Jim Collas
@{ub}
I am not very happy with the QNX announcement. This announcement was
neither reviewed nor approved by Amiga. Several weeks ago we made a
decision to use the Linux OS kernel instead of QNX. We were planning to
communicate this decision to the Amiga community in the technology brief
to be released in the next few days. I know this is a shock to many people
given the previous announcements and activities relative to QNX. I
apologize for the way this is being communicated but I have been put in an
awkward position. The formal announcement will be on the Amiga web site
within 12 hours. Please read this for more information.

After months of research and in-depth discussions with our technology
partners we decided to use Linux as our OS kernel for the new Amiga
Operating Environment (OE). This was a very complicated and difficult
decision to make and I assure you that I didn't make the decision without
a significant amount of research and deliberation. We have been researching
Linux as an alternative for several months now but a final decision wasn't
made until a few weeks ago. Once you understand the reason for the decision,
I think that you will agree that it is a good decision.

Linux has picked up a significant amount of momentum in the last year as an
viable alternative OS. In talking to the key component suppliers it was
clear that they were all putting resources on supporting Linux. It was
difficult to convince them to support yet another OS kernel. Using the
Linux kernel allows us to leverage a significant amount of software from
the Linux community.

Given the momentum, we decided to do an in-depth technical analysis of
Linux. As we ported parts of our higher level OE and AmigaObject
architecture to Linux for testing, we discovered some significant
performance advantages in the Linux kernel in areas such as distributed
object messaging across a network (up to 10X the performance of Windows NT).
This is a strategic performance advantage for our new environment. Although
Linux configurations can be very large, the core Linux kernel and services
are actually quite small and efficient. We have also identified hardware
components that are being optimized for Linux. I am convinced that we can
build an incredibly impressive next generation Amiga based on the Linux OS
kernel.

We are integrating a significnant amount of technology to make the Amiga
unique yet we will still be able to leverage drivers and also some
applications. In many ways, it's the best of both worlds.

Our soon to be released technology brief will further explain our
architecture and plans for integrating all of the selected technology. Once
you read it I am confident that you will understand the revolutionary
nature of the next Amiga and the reason why we have a great opportunity to
drive the next computer revolution.

As for QNX, I can assume that they aren't happy that they didn't get the
Amiga opportunity and they decided to confuse the issue. Regardless of what
QNX announces, the Linux OS is much more mature and supported. It's
unfortunate and I apologize again for how this got communicated.

I look forward to getting feedback on our technology brief. I also look
forward to sharing more of our plans at WoA and AmiWest and seeing some
of you there in person.

Jim

@endnode
@node csam "comp.sys.amiga.misc"

@{b}comp.sys.amiga.misc@{ub}

Aram Iskenderian  +- @{"Stop Attacking Jim Collas Personally" link csa1}
Fleecy Moss       |  +- @{"Re: Stop Attacking Jim Collas Personally" link csa2}
Jim Collas        |- @{"Some clarifications from Amiga" link csa3}
Jim Collas        |- @{"QNX announcement is misleading" link csa4}

@endnode
@node op2 "Fleecy's View"

@{b}Fleecy's View@{ub}

To go from the heights of ecstasy to the pits of dispair far deeper than
even Schindler's valley, and all in 24 hrs. The slings and arrows of
outrageous misfortune really seem to like the Amiga community, but when
they are fired from our own supposed masters, then it just freaks me out.

If you don't know, follow these simple instructions

1 - http://www.qnx.com/amiga/
2 - read Collas's latest on the Amiga website
3 - get a big bottle of Vodka and go out shooting rocks

The first good news in years from QNX, that they have had 40 ppl working on
adding enhancements to their cutting edge RTOS to make it more consumer
friendly, that they will launch a full featured developer support program,
that they want the community to come over and develop for it. Most
importantly, that they will have product to ship.

And then Amiga Inc pulls the rug out from under them. QNX will no longer be
the partner. Linux is a better alternative. Give me a break. The community
has spent the last 9 months tearing the QNX site apart, gobbling up its
data, demos, and manuals, learning all about the company, characters,
partners and projects. We like QNX. It is very amiga like, very advanced.
The company is friendly and fun, and most of all they care about their
community and their technology.

And now Amiga Inc has shafted them.

Technically, they are just plain wrong. Morally, I find it repugnant that
they would do this, not just to another company, but to the community.
Leading us along for 2 years, telling us wonderful things as no products
were forthcoming, and then telling us we are going to Linux.

What a farce.

Amiga Inc may have the name of our platform, but they do not have our
hearts or even our best interests at heart. We have always suspected they
wanted to dumbsize the Amiga, so that Ma and Pa kettle could buy beans over
their TV, but this is the final straw for me. I am signing up for the QNX
developer program, and I hope many others will as well.

We are a community, and as such we have some pride, and some value. Amiga
Inc had their chance with us and this announcement is the final straw. I
see in QNX maybe a new way forwards - a full featured, advanced OS that,
whilst rough, can grow to meet the community as the community grows to meet
it.

In six months time, we could have community products, shareware, PD running
on our new boxes, stuff from World Foundry, Delsyd, Digital, Paul Nolan,
Tornado, Cloanto, Nova, A.C.T, and maybe even running on PPC boxes, if we
could persuade QNX to go that direction. Hell, we could be like a real
platform again.

Sorry Jim, but that was your last shot. Hello Dan, tell us what you've got.

Fleecy Moss

@{"Neils Opinion" link op2c}

@endnode
@node op2c "Neil's Comment"

@{b}NEILS COMMENT@{ub}

What Fleecy (ex employee of Amiga) says is true, in part. The Linux
announcement was delivered in the most abysmal way, ditching QNX so close
to the finalisation of the product. But Jim does care about the Amiga
community. Why else would be waste precious time writing these
announcements and things. Bear in mind that this was written before the
Technology Brief, so when we have the technology brief, that'll also be
commented on.

@endnode
@node op1 "Jim's Comeback"

@{b}Jim's Response on comp.sys.amiga.misc@{ub}

Taken from comp.sys.amiga.misc. Written by Jim Collas, replying to
someone's support for the Linux decisio

I don't blame people for being upset about this
decision. The frustration is understandable given all that the Amiga
community has been through. It's unfortunate that I inherited a
situation that has been mismanaged for so long and a community that has
justifiably lost it's patience. It gives me very little room for error
and corrections. It is frustrating that people associate me with all of
the mistakes and delays of the past. This is the first major change I
have made in my 5 months as president. It is also frustrating that
people think that we led QNX along and then dumped them. People
shouldn't assume that the Amiga/QNX deal died solely because of Amiga.
There were differences of opinion on strategy and implementation and we
spent months trying to negotiate an agreement. Linux started as our
back-up plan just in case and ended up as the preferred choice. The
Linux decision is a good decision for many reasons that I can't fully
go into. I think people will see this in time. Meanwhile, I will just
keep focused on getting to the next generation.

Sincerely,
Jim

@endnode
@node jc2 "Jim's Comeback"

@{b}Jim's Comeback@{ub}

As you can imagine, I have been following the newsgroups closely as you
discuss the Linux decision. The personal attacks on me are discouraging
but I can't blame some people for being very angry. It's understandable
given what the Amiga community has been through in the last few years
and the way this situation unfolded. I wish I could have managed this
situation better but I have been traveling a lot and QNX blindsided us
with their announcement. As I mentioned in an earlier post, we were
planning to communicate the Linux decision along with our technical
brief. I don't want to argue the Linux decision here because you need
to understand the full picture first and the technical brief should
help this. I would like to address a few misunderstandings that I am
seeing in the postings. Whether you agree with the Linux decision or
not, misinformation and inaccurate speculation will only confuse the
situation. I would like you to understand the following:

1) There have been multiple comments about how Amiga led QNX on and
then dumped them. Some of these comments imply a lack of ethics on our
part. These comments aren't accurately portaying the situation. I am
very ethical and won't tolerate unethical behavior at Amiga. We delt
with QNX ethically and above the table. People shouldn't assume that
the Amiga/QNX deal died solely because of Amiga. There were differences
of opinion on strategy, implementation, and licensing terms that we
spent months and months trying to negotiate. I stepped into the middle
of this and was personally involved in the negotiations for over four
months. Linux started as our back-up plan, just in case we couldn't
reach an agreement, and it ended up as the preferred choice. I can't go
into details but remember that things aren't as simple as they seem
from the outside.

2) The comments that bother me the most are the ones questioning my
ethics and motivations. With Amiga, I inherited a situation that has
been mismanaged for years and a community that has justifiably lost its
patience. It is frustrating that people associate me with all of the
mistakes and delays of the past. This gives me very little room for
errors and corrections. I have been president of Amiga for five months
and this Linux decision is the only major shift I have made. In
hindsight, I could have better managed the communication on this
situation but there is an incredible amount going on and I am only
human. I will screw some things up. The surprise from QNX didn't help.
I have been open and straight with the community in every situation.
Amiga has made more progress in the last five months than had been made
in the last five years. Remember that we aren't just developing a
product. We are building a substantial company to compete in this
aggressive industry. This in itself is no small task. In summary, give
me a break. Please.

3) There are many inaccurate perceptions about the size, stability, and
performance of the Linux OS. I initially ruled out Linux because I had
the same perceptions. There are so many options and configurations with
Linux that it is difficult for people to get a handle on it. This is
why we spent months evaluating it before making any conclusions. The
core Linux OS is better than people think it is. QNX is better at a few
things and Linux is better at others. Try not to make assumptions about
the current state of Linux without details. I have asked Allan Havemose
to summarize our Linux evaluation for you.

I hope this will help clear up some of the inaccurate statements. I
expect that some people will continue to slam me and our decision. I
understand that this level of frustration doesn't go away over night.
All I ask is for people to take the time to read and understand our
technology brief when it comes out.

Sincerely,
Jim

@{"Click here to read Neil's Comment" link jc2c}

@endnode
@node jc2c "Neil's Comment"

@{b}NEILS COMMENT@{ub}

I have to agree, the personal attacks on Collas are not only discouraging,
but disgusting. The Amiga public are used to let downs, but this isn't
an excuse for the comments made about Jim. Nor is the decision a 'let
down'.

@endnode
@node qnx1 "Dan Dodge's Announcement"

@{b}Dan Dodge
CTO, QNX Software Systems
@{ub}
Last November at Computer 98 in Cologne I promised to deliver an advanced
operating system that would once again put Amigans at the forefront of
technology. Over the past 7 months we have had a team of over 40 engineers
working towards making that promise and vision a reality. We are now in
the final stages of development and are poised to put these new
technologies into the hands of thousands of serious, enthusiastic
developers like yourself.

QNX is often compared to UNIX, LINUX and BSD. We do share the same POSIX
APIs, and most code written for these systems ports easily to QNX, but the
resemblance ends there. Based on 20 years of OS experience, QNX has a
radically more advanced architecture. It's a massively scalable, multi-
threaded, fault-tolerant, realtime OS designed for devices and computers
of any type or size. QNX provides a unique network architecture where
large full-service protocol stacks aren't required on each computer and
devices plugged into the network are simply "discovered" automatically by
other devices - all services and peripherals of the new device can then
be used by any other device in the network. QNX is also the only
self-hosted RTOS where the development environment and the runtime target
environment are the same. And though we're not open source, we adopt an
"open source" policy for hardware-specific drivers. This allows us to
continually support the latest hardware advances, while still maintaining
control of core technology. More importantly, it ensures QNX has a focused
vision for the future.

If you haven't visited our web site before, I invite you to look at the
QNX Realtime OS and Photon microGUI®. If you'd like to dig a little deeper,
we've included some screen shots of the exciting new look-and-feel for
Photon below (click on the image to expand). We've also put the new QNX
Neutrino System Architecture manual online.

In a nutshell, QNX is the core and Photon the graphical environment for our
new OS foundation:

QNX - Supports POSIX thread services, MMU protected memory for all
applications and drivers, variety of file systems (QNX, flash, DOS,
CD/DVD-ROM, etc.), TCP/IP stack, transparent distributed networking, and
development libraries.

Photon microGUI - Complete windowing system with full Unicode support for
integrated internationalization. Also includes visual application builder
(PhABTM), powerful development environment (layered libraries, over 50
widgets, built-in image support, online documentation, etc.), web browser,
multimedia player, 3D graphics, and gaming support.

Although Photon represents a unique new graphical environment, it works
seamlessly with existing windowing systems. You can, for example, connect
to a Photon desktop from a Windows desktop or connect to a Windows desktop
from a Photon desktop. And because a large number of existing source bases
use the X Window System, we allow developers to compile an application for
X and then run the application under Photon.

QNX Developers Network for Amigans
To deliver this technology to Amiga developers, we're creating the QNX
Developers Network for Amigans. Qualified Amiga developers will receive,
at no charge, a complete beta development package that includes the QNX
Realtime OS, a suite of state-of-the-art multimedia technologies, the
unique network-distributed Photon microGUI, and a self-hosted development
environment. We will also create a dedicated online newsgroup, as well as
a web site to provide technology updates and previews.

Initially, we're looking for beta sites interested in porting existing
applications or writing new applications. Companies and individual
developers are both invited to join - the only thing we ask is commitment.
We want active beta testers, not tire kickers, who will promise to provide
valuable feedback.

Of course, commitment goes both ways. So in addition to starting this
program, we will, as of now, become active and vocal in all the appropriate
newsgroups and magazines. We're looking forward to being a fully active
member of the Amiga community, and to working closely with Amigans to
create the next revolution in multimedia computing.

@{b}Initial Release@{ub}
Our initial beta release will be for x86 PCs. While this hardware platform
may, at first, seem undesirable to some of you, remember that most QNX
applications and device drivers are source-identical across CPUs and
boards. As a result, any work done on x86 will migrate easily to any other
supported platform. We chose x86 because it's the hardware solution most
widely available at low cost in the time frame that we wish to release the
first beta - this Fall.

@endnode
@node woag "World Of Amiga Linux Evaluation"

@{b}What this all means
@{ub}
You probably know by now that Amiga have sensationally ditched QNX for
what seems to be a very bad reason. The Amiga public discussed nothing more
for days after the event. Many thought it was a bad move, and since Amiga
Inc. seem to have no strong reasoning behind the move, I'm inclined to
agree with them. Mr Collas has already been called 'killer of the Amiga' by
various members of the Amiga community because of this decision.

So, their apparent lack of reason behind the change to Linux technology
could spell the end for the Amiga? Or could it. Consider this. Linux is
well established in the computing world, indeed threatening Microsoft's
Windows line of Operating Systems. It is well supported, free and includes
lots of good features. And no doubt it will include extra bells and
whistles from Amiga themselves. So where's the difference between this and
QNX?

There really isn't one when you look into it. You can already get Linux for
the Amiga, which makes it seem a bit pointless. Although, as mentioned,
the official Amiga version should have extra Amiga specific bits added to
it.

"We really do need the OS to be significantly different from other
platforms to make it interesting... and QNX filled that spot nicely.  QNX
allowed simple porting of Linux software as it was.... So how the hell are
the going to be able to get the OS out for the new hardware in time?" -
Ashley Scott. Satanic Dreams Software

I agree with that point. It's something I put to Mr Collas in an email I
sent to him. Whether he will reply or not is a totally different matter. No
doubt that he'll have thousands of Emails to reply to about the subject
once it became public knowledge on the 9th July 1999.

"Amiga were saying at Cologne that the QNX system would be revolutionary,
a real time OS that would really be real-time, perfect for multimedia. With
all the bells and whistles that will be added to Linux it is still not
something as new and special as the QNX based OS could be." - John Hart -
Amiga User

Agreed. Linux IS being used, and offers the same things as QNX would have,
but Linux doesn't have the same appeal or as many things that could really
have been extra-special. However, I've just received the news from QNX that
they still intend to go ahead with their realtime operating environment for
the Amiga. "QNX developer pleas for Amiga community support" was on the QNX
website just a few short hours after the announcement.

However, those who can afford the massive one and a half thousand pound
price tag for the development software will no doubt be plased, but that
kind of excludes the rest of us. It's an extra 200 quid if you want
manuals!!! The QNX beta will, apparently, ship in the autumn, initially on
the x86 platform, "the hardware solution most widely available at low cost
in the time frame that we wish to release the beta." So at least the PC
users get a decent OS out of all this.

"We did what we said we'd do, Dodge appears to be saying, but Amiga has
still turned away from us -- everyone in the Amiga community should make
sure it doesn't get away with it." - Daniel Thornton. This is very true.
Everyone seemed to be getting excited about the forthcoming release of the
new software and hardware, only to be told by Jim Collas that they're
ditching the QNX technology, which must have been nearing completion, in
favour of Linux! A move that will surely delay the new computers by at
least 6 months.

"This is bad... very bad... because it is going to undermine the whole NG
project andthe credibility of Amiga & Gateway and completely destroy the
little confidence in Amiga that is left..." - Alan Day - Amiga User. The
Amiga users which have voiced their opinions in various forums seem to be
speaking of this event as a bad thing, when infact, when you look at it,
isn't.

For a start, we're going to land up with two new seperate OS's. QNX are
still making theirs for the Amiga, and we'll get this Linux variant.
Secondly, remember than this Linux variant ISN'T Linux. It's the kernel,
but not the operating system. Finally, perhaps all the hype and hysteria
generated by this will make Amiga realise they need to keep their
communication channels open with the public.

One very strange, and some may suggest, very consipirative, happened the
day the news was broken. The Amiga.com and Amiga.de websites went down.
They're back up now, but for one moment there, some of the more dramatic
people in the Amiga world thought the end of the Amiga had come. Not true,
I must add.

"One advantage of Linux over QNX: A lot of people already use Linux in the
real world - aren't the general public going to accept a machine with an
existing, well established OS rather than a relatiely unknown? People go
with what they know - that's why the PC has been so successful; it could
do the same for the Amiga." - Rob Marris - IBM UK. This is possibly the
most sensible approach so far. Indeed, lots of people use Linus as opposed
to Windows, which ideally could be the saviour of the Amiga. If the Amiga
comes back with a Linux based OS, rather than something no-one has used
before, maybe there'll be more sales, and more new users.

Anyway, after a day, most people are now comfortable with the idea.
There's not a lot they can do about it anyway. It's a case of like it or
lump it. And most people have seen the light and see that Linux could do
just as well as QNX. It's really just Amiga's timing which cocks the whole
thing up.

-- QUOTES FROM WOA

I'm in disbelief.  I don't think Linux is a bad choice, but I wonder if the 40
full-time QNX engineers were working on the kernel specifically for the new
Amiga, or if they were just doing their own development anyway, and Amiga was
along for the ride.  I think the QNX graphical model (QNX Photon) is very
interesting, and they make a great RTOS.  I just got contacted for being a
beta tester, so I wonder what to do now.

Joe Solinsky




@endnode
@node jc1 "Jim Collas' Initial Linux Statement"

@{b}Linux Annoucement@{ub}

Dear Amigans,

After months of research and in-depth discussions with all of our
technology partners we have decided to use Linux as the primary OS kernel
for the new Amiga Operating Environment (OE). I know this decision is a
shock to many of you given the previous announcements and activities
relative to QNX. This was a very complicated and difficult decision to make
and I assure you that I didn't make this decision without a significant
amount of research and deliberation. We have been researching Linux since
February but didn't finalized our decision until several weeks ago. We
were planning to communicate it to the Amiga community in the technology
brief that will be released in the next few days.

I am pressed to communicate the Linux decision before the technology brief
because of information released by QNX in the last few days. This
information had not been reviewed or approved for release by Amiga. In
light of our Linux decision, this information is confusing and misleading
so I would like to take the time to clarify the situation. I can't
disclose any details of the Amiga/QNX discussions because of legally
binding confidentiality agreements but I can talk to you about our decision
to use the Linux kernel. I think that you will agree that this is the
right decision once you understand the reasons for this decision.

Before I continue, I should mention that our technology decision does not
reflect negatively on QNX. I believe that QNX is a good company with great
technology. I just believe that Linux gives us a better chance of executing
our plans successfully.

The decision to use QNX as our OS partner on our next generation multimedia
convergence computer (MCC) was made late last year. When I took over as
president of Amiga in February of this year, I initiated an in-depth review
of existing Amiga plans and decisions. As president of Amiga I had to make
sure that we were defining a strategy and an execution plan that would
allow Amiga and the Amiga community to be successful. We reviewed our
strategy, architecture decisions, technology partners, and execution plans.
During this review period we also added a number of very talented and
experienced people to help us finalize our technology and product decisions.
I am confident that we now have a solid and exciting plan that people can
have confidence in.

Linux has been picking up substantial momentum over the past year as a
viable, open OS alternative in the marketplace. This momentum, the growing
commitment to Linux applications from a wide variety of software vendors,
and the growing availability of Linux device drivers from hardware vendors,
makes it a compelling candidate. Additionally, with all of the significant
component suppliers putting resources on writing drivers for Linux it was
difficult to get them to port to yet another operating system. Using the
Linux OS as a foundation for our Amiga OE allows us to leverage a
significant amount of available software drivers and utilities. This allows
us to quickly support multiple graphics cards and other peripherals.

Given the above-mentioned advantages, we decided to do an in-depth
technical analysis of Linux to determine if it was a suitable OS kernel
for our new Amiga operating environment (OE). As we ported parts of our
higher level operating environment and AmigaObjectTM architecture to Linux,
we discovered some significant performance advantages in the Linux kernel
in areas such as distributed object messaging across a network (up to 10X
the performance of Windows NT). Although Linux configurations can be very
large in size, the core pieces of the Linux kernel are actually very small
and efficient. In considering hardware requirements we also found companies
working on hardware components that were optimized for the Linux kernel.
Additionally, Linux is probably the most stable operating system available
in the market. After months of in-depth research we were confident that
we could build an extremely exciting next generation Amiga based on the
Linux OS kernel.

Does this mean that the next generation Amiga will not be unique?
Absolutely not! Remember that the OS kernel is only one component of the
new Amiga OE and the hardware is unique. The revolutionary nature of the
Amiga OE is in the way it extends the traditional operating system to
provide a host environment for a new class of portable applications
applications that exist in a pervasive networked computing environment. We
will be integrating multiple technologies including an efficient windowing
environment and a unique user interface.

In summary, we decided to use Linux because of the incredible momentum and
the fact that it is solid technology and a good foundation for our new
Amiga OE. Additionally, the Linux community is an impressive force that we
should be aligned with. We share many common values and objectives with
the Linux community. Using Linux as our OS kernel allows us to build a
unique and revolutionary operating environment while leveraging the
enormous momentum of Linux.

The soon to be released technology brief will further explain our
architecture and plans for integrating all of the selected technology. Once
you read it, I am confident that you will understand the revolutionary
nature of the next generation Amiga. I assure you that Amiga and the Amiga
community will be a driving force behind the next computer revolution.

Sincerely,
Jim Collas
President, Amiga

@endnode



