@database Printer.guide
@remark ENGLISH VERSION
@author Kevin Winspear
@(c) "Copyright © 1994 K.Winspear."
@$VER: Printer.guide(29/06/94)
@wordwrap
@font topaz.font 8

@node Main "Printer"

                             Setting up Printers

                        @{"     " system  "Workbenchx.x:c/ppanim extrasx.x:set-printer.anim"}  See Settting up Printer Animation

1:-     TYPE: Which driver to use. Unless a driver has been copied to the
printers drawer in the Devs drawer on your everyday Workbench disk. It will
not appear here.

2:-     PORT: Select whether the computer will print to the parallel or
serial port.

3:-     PITCH: The spacing, in characters per inch (CPI) that printed
letters use.

4:-     SPACING: How many lines of text appear per inch down the page.

5:-     QUALITY: Whether to use fast draft printing or posher - looking
Near Letter Quality (NLQ).

6:-     PAPER TYPE: Whether the paper is continuous (with the holes at the
edges) or just single sheets. Continuous is called fan-fold on Workbench 2
up systems.

7:-     PAPER FORMAT: Whether the printer is narrow or wide tractor (for
use with continuous paper - wide tractors can accept wider paper). Also
various common sizes (A4, A5) for single sheets paper.
        Custom is a dummy size that sticks to the length and margin
settings - handy if you have a ream or two of Foolscap - sized paper lying
around ready to be used.

8:-     LENGTH: How many lines of printed text will fit on to a page.

9:-     MARGINS: How many blank spaces are skipped at the left and right
hand edges of a page.


                        HOW TO COPY A PRINTER DRIVER.

        Printers very a lot, and one of the differences is called the
printing protocol. This is how the printer interprets the codes Amiga sends
it. The way the Amiga copes with this diversity is to have a set of
different interpretation programs called drivers. There's only one driver
in the Workbench disk it's called Generic and it's designed to put words
out to just about any printer, but it's useless for graphics.

        There are some extra drivers in the Printers drawer on the Storage
disk. Assuming that you have Workbench 3, but no matter what Amiga you
have, printer drivers always have to be in the Printers drawer inside the
Devs drawer. To copy a printer driver, just follow these steps:

1:-     Double - click on the Workbench icon, and again on the Devs drawer
then remove the Workbench disk. Remember to always use a copy of your
Workbench disks, not the original disks.

2:-     After you have removed you copy of Workbench, insert the Storage
disk. An icon for it should appear, but you may have to rearrange the
display to see it.

3:-     Once you have located the Storage disk icon on the screen, double -
click on it to open the disk's window, and then double - click again on the
Printers icon to bring up the printer preferences.

4:-     Move through the list of printers until you see one that is
incompatible with your printer. Most printers will cope with EpsonX,
although this doesn't usually do as good a job as a proper driver.

5:-     Click and hold on the printer driver icon, and drag it to the
Printers drawer inside the Devs window. After a lot of disk swapping, the
driver will be copied.



                        @{"     " quit}  Now I Know? (Close Window)



@endnode


