@Database Cardinal MVP288IV & MVP288XV Modems FAQ

@NODE Main "Cardinal MVP288IV & MVP288XV Modems FAQ"

      @{b}Cardinal MVP288IV & MVP288XV Modems FAQ @{ub}
     
  Cardinal MVP288IV & MVP288XV Fax Modems with Voicemail FAQ   
Answers to common questions and problems are provided in this document.  

     Question:Do the MVP288IV and the MVP288XV modems have a flash 
 ROM? 

      Answer: Yes. All of Cardinal's current production modems 
(except  the MVP144i  and the MVP144XF) have a flash ROM. This allows 
fast and  simple  fIrmware updates. If an update is released, you can 
download a  file from  our BBS (717-293-3074, 8N1) or our FTP site 
and install the  latest   firmware immediately.  

    Question:Does the Version 1.4 Flash ROM Update apply to my  
MVP288IV (or   MVP288XV) modem? 

        Answer: NO! That flash update only applies to the 
MVP288i and  the MVP288XF   modems. If your flash your modem with 
that update it will not  work   properly and the modem will have to 
be returned to Cardinal  for repair - at   your expense. 

        Question:How does Windows 95 configure a Plug-N-Play 
 modem? 

    Answer: Plug and play modems in WIN95 DO NOT have an  
associated com port  shown in device manager in ports. You can change 
the setting  of the  modem in device manager by highlighting the 
modem definition  (ex.   MVP144IV2, MVP288IV ...) and choosing  
properties/resources. You will   have to deselect "Use automatic 
settings" and manually change  the com   port address and IRQ to the 
setting you desire. Select  Basic   Configuration 0002 This one will 
let you make all the  changes. 

    We have found that on systems with a PNP hardware bios (or on  
systems   where you can disable com ports from the keyboard in CMOS)  
WIN95 will   occasionally detect the comport even though it is disabled. 
  This is   because the address still appears allocated to WIN95. 
To  install a   modem on one of these addresses you must remove that 
com  port from   ports in device manager, then reconfigure the modem 
for that  address   and IRQ, then restart windows (power off). When 
WIN95  restarts it will put   the modem on the comport and configure 
the other comport as  an   unconfigured, other device. This is 
because the resources this  port   needs are not available. 

      Question:Can I use the MVP288IV (or the MVP288XV) modem as 
a  speakerphone?. 

    Answer: No. The modem was never designed to be used as a  
speakerphone and   cannot be used as such.. 

      Question:What are good initialization strings for America 
Online,  Compuserve,  internet access, etc....? 

    Answer: These are suggested initialization strings. They are 
not  guaranteed to   work in all situations. 

  
    Recommended generic init string: AT&F&C1&D2   Compuserve: 
AT&F&C1&D2&Q6^M   AOL: AT&F&C1&D2\N5^M   Most Games: AT&F&Q6&K0S37=9 
(locked 9600 bps)   AT&F&Q6&K0S37=11 (locked 14400 bps)   These 
Strings Set: 
  
No Data Compression  
No Error Correction  
No Flow Control  
Locked Baud Rate   Internet: AT&F&C1&D2   ATQ0V1E0M1L2   If the 
ISP is using US Robotics modems try: 
  AT&F&C1&D2+MS=74,1,300,28800 
  (set time out to 60 seconds)    
    If the Internet init strings don't work contact your ISP and 
get  the brand   name and connection parameters of their modems. (ex. 
error  correction,   data compression, flow control, echo result 
codes, and any  other info they   feel is important.) 

    If you continue to have connection problems get the brand name 
and  connection parameters of the other modem. (ex. error correction, 
data  compression, flow control, echo result codes, and any other info 
that  may be important.) This will help us resolve connection  
problems. 

      Question:I am running Windows NT. Do you have Windows NT 
drivers for  the   MVP288IV (or MVP288XV)? 

    Answer: Unfortunately we are unable to provide support for  
Windows NT   Applications at this time. 

      Problem 1: When installing the modem under Windows 95 I get 
the  error- file can   not be found when asked to insert Windows 95 
CD or  DISK1. 

    Solution: If you are using the Windows 95 CD-ROM you must point 
 to the WIN95   path on the CD-ROM. When you get this error you will be 
given  the option   to enter a path. Type in X :\WIN95 (where  x = 
the drive letter of your CD   Rom. If you are using the floppy disk 
version of Windows 95  these files  are not included. Microsoft did 
not include the Voice View  files on the   floppy disk version of 
Windows 95. You must choose to SKIP  these files.   DO NOT CANCEL as 
this will cancel the modem installation. It  will   prompt you for 
DISK 12 and at this point it will find the needed  files and   
continue with the installation. This WILL NOT hinder the  performance of 
  your modem in any way. For questions on obtaining these files,  you 
must   contact Microsoft. 

      Problem 2:When installing ICU software under Windows 3.1x I 
get a  SHARE   violation error. 

    Solution: Some programs (such as WordPerfect) use the DOS  
share command.   This command sometimes sets parameters that are not  
compatible with   the ICU software. In this case you should not try to 
use the  ICU software.   The following steps will require a basic 
knowledge of the IRQs  and   Com ports being used in your system, as 
you will  be responsible for   choosing the comport and IRQ the modem 
will be using. The  PLUGPLAY   lines should be removed from your 
CONFIG.SYS  file and the [386Enh]   section of your SYSTEM.INI . On 
the MODEM  INSTALLATION DISK#4   there is a hidden file called 
PNPSET.EXE . For  complete instructions on   this programs use please 
order document # 1300 from the  Faxback   service.  

    Problem 3:Windows 95 installs the modem but Windows 95 is  
unable to   communicate with it. 

    Solution: The first thing that should be looked for is conflicts. 
In  your DEVICE   MANAGER there should be a section for MODEMS  . 
Look here to see if   your modem is being found. Also, make sure that 
the only  device(s) listed  here match what you have installed in 
your system. If there is  an (!) or (?)   in front of the modem then 
that indicates a setup problem or  conflict. You   should check that 
the comport address and IRQ does not  conflict with any   other 
devices in your system. If you do see a conflict the  modems   
settings can be changed under PROPERTES/RESOURCES  to a setting   
which is not in use by another device. 

    If the modem is not found look for a section under your   
DEVICE   MANAGER called OTHER . Often, if  Windows can not find or 
identify your   modem it will place it in this section. If the modem is 
found  here, it is   probably due to the fact that Windows 95 was 
unable to find a  valid   location for it. Check to make sure that an 
IRQ of 3,4,5,6 or 7  is available   on your system. Also, this 
problem can be caused when  Windows   doesn.t load the driver for the 
modem. You can access the   DRIVERS   section of the OTHER DEVICES 
and choose   CHANGE DRIVER . Then   select HAVE DISK and use the 
driver on DISK #1  of your modem   installation software. 

      Question: Windows 95 recognizes the modem but my 16 bit  
applications will not see   it. (ie. Faxworks or Talkshop) 

    Solution: Windows 95 does not always modify your  SYSTEM.INI 
file to include the   changes for your comport settings. In other words- 
the  software may not   be looking in the right place for the modem. 
Your Comports  base address   and IRQs are defined in the [386Enh] 
section of  your SYSTEM.INI file.   You should check these settings 
to make sure that they match  your   modems settings. The following 
lines need to be added to your   SYSTEM.INI file in the [386enh]  
section: 

  

com1irq=4

com1base=03f8

com2irq=3

com2base=02f8

com3irq=4

com3base=03e8

com4irq=3

com4base=02e8          The ... base= ... address for each com port will 
not  change, but the IRQ will   vary depending on how you have your 
system configured. ex. if  your   modem is on com3/irq5 the line 
should read:  com3irq=5 . Also if you do   not have a com installed 
leave the info after the = sign blank.  ex. com4irq= com4base= 

      Question: Faxworks hangsup during the recording or retrieval 
of  voice messages. 

    Solution: This problem can be caused in some cases by the phone 
 system in your   area. It can often be corrected by adding #CEXT=0  
to the initialization  string box in Fax Setup. The new string should 
readl  AT&K3#CEXT=0 

    If this does not fix the problem you should uninstall it and  
reinstall the   latest version of Faxworks which can be found on the 
Cardinal  BBS at   (717) 293-3074. The files are found in the  
VOICEMDM file library. All   files are listed with a description which 
should enable you to  find the new   files quickly and easily. Due to 
copywrite laws these files  may require a   password in order to 
uncompress them. This password can be  obtained   from Technical 
Support or the BBS sysop after proper product  ownership   has been 
established. 

    There is also an uninstaller available on the BBS. It.s 
filename  is   FWUNINST.EXE. It is also self extracting but does  
not contain a   password encryption. For more information on 
uninstalling  Faxworks   please order document number 1310 from the 
Cardinal Faxback  service. 

      Question: After I installed the modem I don't hear a dial 
tone, or  hear the modem   dialing, or hear the connection sounds. 

    Solution: The following is the fix we have come up with:  
Using the Windows Explorer, click on the (+) at Windows  directory.  
Then click on: [-]Windows to highlight and expand files within.  Locate 
the file: REGEDIT.EXE on  the right side and click on it.. 

  

Select<code> Edit </code>and then Find

Type <code>dialsuffix</code>(There are no spaces in it.).

Delete the:<code>";"</code>(Leave the Parenthesis "( )" there.).

Click on <code>OK</code>

Close <code>REGEDIT.EXE</code>.

  
  Once Windows 95 is restarted, the changes will take effect  and you 
will   hear the modem dial and negotiations sounds.. 

      Question: I know my modem supports caller ID, but the 
Modem  Reference Manual  doesn.t mention how to use it. 

      Solution: Here is the caller ID info you need. 

      Caller ID Commands 
    

#CID=0Disables Caller ID. (Default.)



#CID=1Enables Caller ID with formatted presentation to the DTE.

The modem will present the data items in 

a Tag-Value pair format.  The expected pairs are

data, time, caller code

(telephone number), and name.



#CID=2Enables Caller ID with unformatted presentation to 

the DTE. The modem will present the entire packet 

of information, excluding the leading U's, in ASCII 

printable hex numbers.<BR><br>

 

#CID=?Returns the mode capabilities of the modem in a 

list with each element separated by commas.  A 

complete caller ID document is available from our 

Faxback service at 717-399-2308.  Request 

document #1320    Question:Will the MVP288IV or the MVP288XV work with Delrina 
Comm  Suite? 

    Answer: The following modems have been approved for use with  
WinFax Pro7 and  TalkWorks: 

  
  

Cardinal - Cardinal 14.4 MVP144IV2**

Cardinal - Cardinal 28.8 MVP288IV**

Cardinal - Cardinal 28.8 MVP288XV**

  
  ** - Win95 modem detection will automatically select correct  name, 
  TalkWorks install will automatically install correct settings,  no 
user   selection required. 

      Question: I have an MVP288XV modem and I can not fax 
anything  with WinFax Pro  7.0. 

    Solution: WinFax PRO 7.0 has the ability to control the DTE 
speed  (ie: baud rate)  of the fax modem serial port. Typically the 
DTE speed is set to  19200   bits/sec. In the case of four Cardinal 
modem models  (MVP288IV,   MVP288XV, MVP288IS, and MVP288XS), and 
ONLY these  modems,   this parameter was incorrectly set to 38,400bps 
in the modem  database   that was shipped with the TalkWorks release. 

    While many fax modems will operate correctly with a DTE  speed 
of   38,400bps, these two Cardinal modems will not. 

    There are several solutions available for this problem: 

    
Select the correct faxing parameters for either of the two  Cardinal  
modems as follows: 

  

Within WinFax, select  Modem from the Setup menu 

  
Highlight the Cardinal modem entry, then hold  down the 

  SHIFT key and click on the  Properties button. 

  
Click Yes on the  next panel. 

  
Hold down the SHIFT key and click  Next 

  
When the modem interrogation completes, hold  down the SHIFT key and 
click  Next 

  
Select the entry Rockwell  Fax/Voice , then click Next ,  then click 
Finish . 

  Your Cardinal MVP288IS or MVP288XS modem should now  work   
properly with WinFax. 

    
Use the DelTest utility that is shipped with WinFax (use the  Edit the 
 Registry function) to adjust the  CommSuite_Settings/   
Modem_x/FaxDTESpeed parameter from  38,400bps to 19,200bps. 

    
Download an updated DCCMODEM.DAT file,  which will have the  Cardinal 
modem parameters corrected. This file will be  made   available in 
the near future from Symantec's BBS. (By end  of   February) 

      Question: I have installed ICU (Windows 3.1 Plug-N-Play 
software)  and it will not let  me configure the modem on Com1 or 2 
or it is causing other  problems in   my machine. 

    Solution: We have seen occasional problems with ICU that don't 
 allow you to install  the modem properly. We recommend you remove the 
ICU  program and   install the file PNPSET.EXE . The following  
instructions will help you   complete this. 

    Removing The ISA Configuration utility (ICU) 

    
In the root directory on c:\ you must delete the  file ESCD.RF . 

    
In the CONFIG.SYS you must delete the line that   says,  
DEVICE=C:\PLUGPLAY\... then save your  changes. 

    
In the SYSTEM.INI , in the [386Enh]  section, delete the lines   that 
start with DEVICE=C:\PLUGPLAY ...   then save your changes. 

    
In the WIN.INI file under the [windows]  section, RUN= should   have 
no reference to ICU or PLUGPLAY after the equals  sign. Save your 
changes if any were made. 

    
Delete the directories C:\PLUGPLAY and  C:\ICU 

    
Exit windows and reboot your system. 

    Installing PNPSET  

  You must first determine which COM port and IRQ is available  in 
your machine that will accept the modem without conflict.   We recommend 
you run Microsoft Diagnostics (MSD) from a   DOS prompt (do not shell 
out to DOS from Windows).  The com port addresses are as follows: 
com1:03f8,  com2:02f8,  com3:03e8, com4:02e8 

    
Exit Windows and get to the root directory DOS prompt  (C:\)   

  
Put Disk 4 of 4 in the floppy drive and change to that drive.   A: 
(ENTER)   

  
Type ATTRIB -H (ENTER) (unhide all hidden  files) 

    
Type COPY PNPSET.EXE C:\ (ENTER) (copy the file  to your root 
directory)  

  
Change back to your C drive. C: (ENTER) 

  
Type EDIT AUTOEXEC.BAT (ENTER) 

    
Add this line to the autoexec.bat: PNPSET /RESET COM   IRQ   (Where 
COM is the number of the com port where you  want the  modem and IRQ 
is the number of the interupt where you  want   the modem. ex: PNPSET 
/RESET 2 3 - the  modem will be   configured for COM2 IRQ3 ) This 
line  should be added at the  beginning of the AUTOEXEC.BAT file. 
Save  your changes. 

    
Exit EDIT and reboot your system. 

    PNPSET is now installed on your system and the modem will  now 
appear to the system as a non Plug & Play modem. 

      Problem 10:When I installed the modem, Windows 95 detected 
it and  asked for  Manufacturers Disk 1. Then it asked for the 
Windows 95  upgrade  diskette 1. It couldn.t find FILEXFER.CNT or  
FILEXFER.HLP or  FILEXFER.EXE....... 

    Solution: Files Not Included on Windows 95 Upgrade  Diskettes 

    These files are required for direct operation of VoiceView by  
Windows 95.  They do not affect the operation of the modem, FaxWorks, 
Talk  Shop, or   other communications software. 

  

FTE.DLL

VVEXE32.EXE

WSVV.VXD

WINSOCK.DLL

WSOCK32.DLL

WSOCK.VXD

VTDI.386

FILEXFER.EXE

FILEXFER.HLP

FILEXFER.CNT

  These files are included on the Windows 95 CDRom upgrade but  not 
on   the Windows 95 diskette upgrade and the Windows 95 OEM  CDRom  
 (with cabinets - diskettes on CDRom). These files may exist  on the 
full   version (CDRom and Diskette) of WIN95 but this has not been  
confirmed.   Cardinal Technologies, Inc. is unable to supply these 
files.   Microsoft will   not allow distribution of these files due 
to licensing. At this  time we only   have information on a few of 
the missing files which are  listed below. It is   recommended you 
contact Microsoft for further  guidance. 

    To install the files when you receive them, reload the modem  
driver in   control panel/device manager/modem/properties/driver.   
Select "Change   Driver" and follow the prompts, substituting the floppy 
with  the voice view   files for the WIN95 diskettes. . 

    The VoiceView setup files are available via FTP at the  
following address. 

      ftp.microsoft.com/softlib/MSLfiles/vvsetup.exe   . 

  This self extracting file contains:. 

  

FTE.DLL

VVEXE32.DLL

WSVV.VXD

FILEXFER.EXE

FILEXFER.HLP

FILEXFER.CNT


  Unfortunately, this doesn't have the winsock files. This file  
should also be   availabe via MicroSoft BBS and CompuServe with the 
same  name.. 

      Problem 11:When I play voice mail messages through my sound 
card I  get garbled   sound or I do not hear any sound. Why? 

    Solution: :If you are connecting the modem to a sound card and 
your  speakers are   also connected to the sound card you will not be 
able to hear  messages   replayed. The user's manual getting started 
guide is incorrect  in   stating/diagraming a connection to a sound 
card. The output  from the   modem is NOT compatible with the input 
of sound cards. The  only way   you can play your messages through 
speakers is to connect  them directly   to the modem. We recommend 
you use an unamplified speaker.   This   also applies to microphone 
options.. 

    
  
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
  
  @{i}Copyright 1996 Cardinal Technologies, Inc. All Rights Reserved. The 
 Cardinal diamond logo is a registered trademark of Cardinal 
Technologies.  All other marks are the property of their respective 
owners. The  information  contained at this site is accurate to the 
best of our abilities and is  subject  to change without notice.@{ui}


@ENDNODE
