@database FKey.guide
@remark ENGLISH VERSION
@author Kevin Winspear
@(c) "Copyright © 1994 K.Winspear"
@$VER: FKey.guide(29/06/94)
@wordwrap
@font topaz.font 8

@node Main "FKey"

                                FKey

        FKey is a macro utility which assigns text strings to the function
keys, the F keys along the top of the Amiga keyboard. This is especially
useful for users of CLI or Shell because it saves you having to repeatedly
to type in often-used commands. By careful when using FKey with an
application program - if the program assigns F keys to functions of its own
you should disable or quit FKeys.

        When you double click on FKey a window appears in which a text
gadget is assigned to each F key. You can enter text for each F key and
Shifted F key, giving you 20 possible macros. Select the text gadget for F
key you wish to assign text to and type in the text. If you want to assign
text to a Shifted F key, click on the Modifier gadget so that it reads
Shift.

        You can use special characters at the end of the text to perform
the following functions:

                        /n      Adds a Return
                        /r      Adds a Return
                        /t      Adds a Tab
                        /0      Adds a zero(0)

                       <Key>    Enter a key combination in angled brackets.
The combination must be prefaced by a qualifier. The four gadgets at the
bottom of the window are duplicated in the Project menu for the window,
with keyboard equivalents also:

        Save (Right Amiga-S) Enables FKey and saves the text strings even
after FKey is Quit. The next time you open Fkey the text you saved will
appear in the text gadgets.

        Use (Right Amiga-U) Enable FKey and uses the text you entered. The
next time you load FKey time you load FKey the text will revert to the last
saved text.

        Cancel (Right Amiga-C) Enables FKey but ignores any text you
entered. The last saved text is recognised.

        Quit (Right Amiga-Q) Exits FKey and disables all F key assignments.

        To exit FKey, double click on its icon and select Quit or use the
Exchange program (see Utilities/Exchange) to kill it.

        Workbench 3 FKey is more flexible. It lets you assign 8
different commands to F keys, with preceding qualifiers if required. It
effectively combines the functions of the FKey and IHelp Commodities from
Workbench 2. Double click on the FKey icon and a window opens. On the left
is a scrolling list (Defined Keys), with two gadgets beneath (New Key and
Delete Key). To enter a new key sequence, click on New Key and type the
sequence in the text box.

        To the right is the Command cycle gadget with which you assign
commands to key sequence you entered. Cycle Windows, Cycle Screens, Enlarge
Windows and Shrink Windows have the same effect as the corresponding
commands in IHelp (see below). Toggle Window Size is the same as IHelp's
Zoom Window command. The other option are:

        Insert Text Pressing the key sequence inserts the specified text
string. You specify the text in the Command Parameters gadget below the
Command gadget.

        Run Program Pressing the key sequence runs a program. You specify
the path name of the program and its arguments in the Command Parameters
gadget below the  Command gadget.

        Run AREXX Script Pressing the key sequence runs an AREXX script.
You specify the script name and its arguments in the Command Parameters
gadget below the Command gadget.



                        @{"     " quit}  Now I Know? (Close Window)


@endnode

