@database Clock.guide
@remark ENGLISH VERSION
@author Kevin Winspear
@(c) "Copyright © 1994 K.Winspear."
@$VER: Clock.guide(29/06/94)
@wordwrap
@font topaz.font 8

@node Main "Clock"

                                Clock

        The Clock enables you to have the time displayed on the Workbench
while you're working on the other thing, and also has an alarm facility.
The Clock knows what time to display by referring to the Amiga's system
clock, so if you need to set up the time itself, use the Time editor in the
prefs drawer.

        You open the Clock by double-clicking on the Clock icon in the
Utilities drawer. There are five menus available when the Clock is
selected.

        Type Menu: You can display the clock in two ways, Analog and
Digital. Choosing the Analog option displays the clock as a normal clock
face. In this mode you can change the size of the clock face by using the
sizing gadget, just as with any other window, as well as move the clock
anywhere on the Workbench. The Digital option displays the time in digital
format (for example 2:30 AM), in a small bar the height of menu bar. The
digital clock can be moved around but not resized.

        Mode Menu: The two options are 12 hour 24 hour. The 12 hour option
shows an AM or PM after the time (or in the top right hand corner of the
analog clock). The 24 hour option makes the digital clock display time in
24 hour format, that is 14:00 (2:00 PM). If the Clock is in analog display 
when the 24 hour option is selected, the AM and PM are not shown.

        Seconds Menu: There are two options, Seconds On and Seconds Off.
Choosing Seconds On creates a sweeping second hand on the analog display,
and adds a further field for seconds on the digital display. Choosing
Seconds Off removes them.

        Date Menu: You can have the date displayed along with the time by
choosing Date On in the Date Menu. With this option chosen, the digital
clock alternates between displaying the time and the date. The analog clock
shows the date under the clock face.

        Alarm Menu: There are three menu items here, Set..., Alarm On, 
Alarm Off. Choosing the set... option brings up a requester containing two 
sliders with which you set the time at which you wish the alarm to go off. 
The left hand slider is the hour slider and the right hand slider is for 
minutes, The time is displayed in the same format as the clock itself, so 
if you're in 12 hour mode there is extra gadget for stating AM or PM. Set 
the alarm by using the mouse to drag the hours and seconds bars, and if 
necessary clicking on the AM/PM cycle gadget. Finish by clicking on Use. 
If you click on Cancel instead, your changes will be ignored and the alarm 
will revert back to its previous setting. The alarm goes off at the time 
specified if the Alarm On option is selected. The screen flashes and a 
tone is sounded on the monitor speaker. The alarm setting is lost every 
time you close the Clock, so you'll have to reset it next time you open 
it. To close the Clock, click on the close gadget in the top left hand 
corner of the Clock window.

        Tool Types...
                        You can enter various Tool Types in the Clock
icon's Information window so that the Clock opens the way you prefer it
every time. The Tool Types are:

                                DIGITAL
                                24 HOUR
                                SECONDS
                                DATE

You can also specify where you'd like the Clock to appear, and what size,
using the following Tool Types:

        LEFT=<n> The Clock opens <n> pixels from the left edge of the
screen.
        TOP=<n> The Clock opens <n> pixels form the top of the screen.

        WIDTH=<n> The Analog Clock opens <n> pixels wide. If you open a
Digital Clock the Tool Types is ignored.

        HEIGHT=<n> The Analog Clock opens <n> pixels high. If you open a
Digital Clock this Tool Type is ignored.

        Workbench 3 Clock:

        The Clock works exactly the same in Workbench 3, except that all
the Menu item are condensed into just two menus - Project and settings.

        Project Menu: This contains the options for Analog and  Digital
display as well as a Quit option as an alternative to using the close
gadget. It also offers keyboard equivalents - Right Amiga-A for Analog,
Right Amiga-D for Digital and Right Amiga-Q for Quit.

        Settings Menu: This has options for Date and seconds.
The Digital Format option gives you four different ways to display Digital
Clock - as 24 hour or 12 hour and with or without seconds display. There is
an Alarm option, marked with a tick when active, with the keyboard
equivalent Right Amiga-M. Set Alarm brings up a similar requester to the
Workbench 2 Clock, except with horizontal sliders. The final item in the
menu, Save Settings, saves the alarm setting to disk.




                        @{"     " system "extrasx.x:utilities600/clock600.pic"}  See Clock Picture
                        @{"     " quit}  Now I Know? (Close Window)



@endnode

