@database Display.guide
@remark ENGLISH VERSION
@author Kevin Winspear
@(c) "Copyright © 1994 K.Winspear."
@$VER: Display.guide(29/06/94)
@wordwrap
@font topaz.font 8

@node Main "Display"

                                Display

        Display is a very handy utility which enables you to view standard
Amiga IFF ILBM pictures files. This is the file format used to most Amiga
paint programs.

        To view an IFF file, select the Display icon with one click, then
hold down the Shift key on the keyboard and double-click on the icon of the
picture file you wish to view. If picture doesn't have an icon, use the
Show All Files menu item in the Window menu to assign it a pseudo-icon. A
new screen appears displaying the picture. You can print the file that's
currently displayed by pressing Ctrl-P. To return to the Workbench screen,
press Ctrl-C or click the hidden close gadget in the top left hand corner
of the screen.

        If you wish to display more than one file, click on the Display
icon as before, then while holding down the shift key click on every file
that you wish to view. When you get to the last file, double click on it
and the first picture file you chose will be displayed. Click the left
mouse button or press Ctrl-C to advance through each picture, and the
program loops back to the first file when you reach the last. Press Ctrl-D
to take you back to the Workbench.

        You can automate the Display process by creating an ASCII text file
made up of the files you want to display. You can use Ed or MEmacs to
create the file, or any word processor that saves files in ASCII format.
An example would be the following file:


                GraphicsDisk:Pic1
                GraphicsDisk:Pic2
                GraphicsDisk:Pic3
                GraphicsDisk:Pic4
                GraphicsDisk:Pic5

        The filelist should be saved in a drawer accessible by the
Workbench and must have a project type icon. Check that it has the right
type of icon by selecting the icon and choosing Information in the Icons
menu. Use the IconEdit program to change the icon's type if necessary. In
the Information window for the filelist icon, add the Tool Type:

                FILELIST=true

        In the Default Tool gadget enter:

                Workbench2.0:Utilities/Display

        unless you've moved the Display program into a different drawer, in
which case specify the new location in the Default Tool gadget. Now all you
have to do is double-click on the filelist icon and the Display program
will load and display the pictures in the list automatically.

        Tool Types: There are various Tool Types which enable you to use
different methods of moving from one picture to the next, print out the
pictures, automatically scroll the picture if it's larger than the display
area and other parameters specific to the pictures themselves:

        FILELIST=true Displays all the files listed in an ASCII file.

        MOUSE=true Clicking the left hand mouse button displays the next
picture file, while clicking the right hand button displays the previous
file.

        LOOP=true After displaying all files it will loop back and display
the first again, and so on until you press Ctrl-D.

        TIMER=<seconds> The display will automatically advance to the next
picture after the specified number of seconds has elapsed.

        BACK=true The file will be displayed on a back screen, While the
Workbench remains active at the front. You may want to choose this if you
wish to print the file but don't want to see them.

        PRINT=true Each file that's displayed will be automatically
printed.

        AUTOSCROLL=true This lets you scroll the screen if the file is
larger then the screen size. Move the mouse pointer to the edge of the
screen and it automatically scrolls.

        The following Tool Types are entered per picture.

        EHB=true Unspecified, 6-bitmap pictures are treated as Extra
Hafbrite rather than HAM.

        NOTRANSB=true When genlocking a picture, the borders around the
side are not transparent.

        VIDEO=true The picture is displayed with a full-video display clip.



                        @{"     " quit}  Now I Know? (Close Window)


@endnode


