@database 002d9ce8-0
@master Insane.guide
@$VER: 1.0
@remark Created with Heddley v1.1 (c) Edd Dumbill 1994

@node "Main" "Screech Guide"
                 +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
                 |                                     |
                 +   SCREECH - Full AGA Demo version   +
                 |                                     |
                 + ©Copyright 1995/96  Insane Software +
                 |                                     |
                 +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

 Please note: Drop me a line if you are interested in the game,
              at the moment I will not be releasing a full version
              because of my studies.

              I have decided due to the lack of time to cut back on
              some of the workload of SCREECH.  But if there are people
              out there who want to help with creating tracks then I can
              give you a few pointers with creating tracks.

              Andrew Heap

 Code By Andrew Heap  Graphics By Bradley Leffler  Music by Jared Quinert

     @{" Legal Info        " link "Legal Stuff" 0} Covering our asses.
     @{" Requirements      " link "Hardware" 0} What you need.
     @{" Installation      " link "Install" 0} Stick it wherever.
     @{" Registration      " link "Money" 0} A paltry sum.

     @{" Gameplay          " link "Play" 0} If you need the help.
     @{" Future Plans      " link "Plans" 0} You mean there's more?
     @{" Addresses         " link "Credits" 0} Where to find us plus our credits.
     @{" Screech History!  " link "history" 0} How did it happen!
     @{" Screech Completion" link "Completion" 0} Creating more Tracks.
@endnode

@node "Legal Stuff" "Legal Stuff"

The usual Legal Mumbo Jumbo.
----------------------------

 Disclaimer:

We make no warranties, either expressed or implied, with respect to  the
software described  in  this  document,  its  quality,  performance,  or
fitness for any particular purpose.  Any risk concerning it's quality or
performance is solely the user's. Should the  program  prove  defective, the
user assumes the entire cost of all necessary servicing, repair,  or
correction and any incidental or consequential damages. In no event will we
be liable for direct, indirect  or  consequential  damages  resulting from
any defect in the software.

  You may freely distribute this archive as long as all files listed are
included as well as the files below.  If this is to be added to a PD
library then I (Andrew) must be notified.  It is Illegal to add it
without permission from anyone from Insane Software.

  ScreechGuide
  ScreechDoc.txt

  Although Screech Demo is public domain, no one shall make a profit through
it's distribution. You should pay no more than the cost of the media upon
which it is transferred. 

  SCREECH is ©Copyright 1995/1996 - Insane Software
@endnode

@node "Hardware" "Requirements"

68020 And AGA Hardware better processor 2MB CHIP RAM

NOTE:  We would appreciate it if  someone could let us know how  Screech
runs  on  Amigas other than the A1200.  If anyone expresses interest, we may
release a cut-down version for the A500.

Please also note that running any background tasks could basically cause a
crash.  If it does crash then make sure all commodities are turned off.

Screech has been tested on the following machines:

        *  A1200 0MB, 2MB and 4MB fast ram configuration.
        *  A1200 030/28 4MB System
        *  A2000 040 * - ECS version (2.41)
        *  A4000 040 25Mhz 6MB system

@endnode

@node "Install" "Installing Screech"

Screech Hard Disk Install
-------------------------

To install Screech simply copy all files into your directory.

Add a line to your user-startup:

  Assign Screech: <Your Path>

Make sure the subdirectories within your directory match the ones in the
distribution archive.

Well at the moment there is only one sub-directory:-

Data - This contains all game data!

To play Screech, either click the Workbench icon, or start the demo from a
shell with:

Screech_Demo
@endnode

@node "Money" "Registration"

WE WANT YOUR MONEY!
-------------------

BIG NOTE: Due to my studies being in the way for now I will have to delay
anymore work on the game, see main screen for more information.

NOTE:  Since I have moved to AGA, I will be taking more time to finish
Screech.  IF you are interested in registering then Send me (Andrew) a
postcard just let me know you want to register!

Screech! is barterware.  If you're  interested  in  receiving  the  full
version, with many more tracks and a nice management side, then send either
$12 US, $15 AUS  or  equivalent  goods/service, and we'll send you the
complete version of Screech!  BUT.....please notify us of your interest
before sending any money.

Alternatively, if you are a programmer, or involved in the production of
shareware or  PD  games, then send us a copy  of your game.  We  hope to
start a network of amateur game developers to share our skills. We would
also like to organize a nice distribution process within the network. It
would  also  be  nice  to have someone else test our software, and share
ideas and suggestions.

BUT: If you don't want to subscribe then just send us a postcard, it would
be nice to know where Screech has gone in this rather small world! :')

In Australia:

     Andrew Heap c/o Insane Software
     1/716 Burwood Rd
     East Hawthorn, 3123
     Australia

Those who do help with the completion of Screech will get a free
registered copy!  See special section called "SCREECH COMPLETION"

@endnode

@node "Play" "Gameplay"

How to play.
------------

 The Select/Options screen will allow you to choose a track and the number
of laps, plus the difficulty level of the computer controlled cars.

pressing 'q' on this screen will allow you to quit to the MULTIBAR!

Getting around the menus and the two player mode:

Arrow keys or joystick to move around the various items, pressing right
shift or fire button over menu will activate it.  If over anything else
then will try and enter game with the default method.   So if you have
selected keyboard 1 to play as player 2 for a 2 player game.  Then you
must press the acceleration key (Left Shift) to activate a two player game.

In a 1 player game use the joystick in port 2:

Normal Control method

 Fire  = Accelerate

 Left  = Rotate Counter-Clockwise

 Right = Rotate Clockwise

 Down  = Brakes with no acceleration on

 Up    = Turbo.  Only 5 of these.

Alternate Control.

Acceleration and turbo are swapped around.

For 2 player mode use a joystick in port 1, and hit the fire button during
the Select/Options screen.

             Keyboard 1        Keyboard 2

Accelerate   Right Shift       Left Shift

Turbo        Up Arrow            'w'

Brake        Down Arrow          's'

Left         Left Arrow          'a'

Right        Right Arrow         'd'

Press 'Q' while on the Selection Screen to exit game back to WB or CLI!

 INGAME!
 -------

 Upon entering the race screen you will hear the words "GET READY".
Player 1 then should press acceleration control to begin the race, if
in two player mode then the 2nd player should press his acceleration control.
The players will know they have entered by the race start sound.

 KEYS: 'p' for pause on/off
       from there 'q' for quit to main menu
       or 'm' for multitasking mode.  You can quit program completely
       from there.
       How easy is that!!!!!

@endnode

@node "Plans" "What's in store..."

 Screech will continue to be developed, here are some features that will
 be integrated or are already available for future versions!

 Future plans include:

    Pit stops
    16 tracks in all (maybe even more)
    Car damage and fires
    More little characters and animals to run over!
    Non player-race related vehicles - Fire Engines, Ambulances, Police.
    Team management
    Multi-player and modem play options
    3 Player Split Screen - Hires Interlaced (AGA Only!)

Other games in the pipeline!

Hairpin II is already available as licenseware.
Forthcoming releases (in no particular order) are:

   * Combat 2000      (Combat/Scorched Earth cross) - working title - 30%
   * Marauder         (Robot combat game)
   * Galaxian AMI     Complete on the AMINET in game/misc/Naixalag.lha
   * Aerial Racers    Complete on the AMINET in game/misc/Aerial_Racers.lha
                      Part 1 and 2

What it was developed with:

    Blitz Basic 2 V1.90
    A68k Assembler
    Brilliance
    DPaint II
    Protracker
    3D Designer

@endnode

@node "Credits" "Insane Info"

The Usual Thanks.....
---------------------

 We would also like to thank the following people for their help with
 bug testing:-

    Neil Brewitt - Thanks for the amount of Bug testing you have done!

        Robert Atkins - A NSW dude!

            Josh Jacobson - Thanks for the relief bug testing!

                Steve Flock - Hey Steve, Great Tracker routines!

   Also special thanks to Aaron and Warren Burgess, Mr Nobody (He knows
   who he is) and Dennis Cranston for their work with my Compatiablity
   problems!

   Special note:  We  would also  like to acknowledge that  Powerpacker and
Crunchmania  were used in the  production of this game. We forgot to add
them  to the  credits at this  time but  this does  not  diminish  their
contributions!

Where to Contact Us:-
---------------------

 Mail us at:

Snail: Andrew Heap,
       79 South Crescent
       Northcote, 3070
       Australia

Phone: (03) 9486 3614

Email: heap@yallara.cs.rmit.edu.au
       screech@ozramp.net.au
or - 

Snail: Brad Leffler
       P.O. Box 1948
       Williamsburg,Va 23187
       USA

Phone: (804) 566 0521

Email: vortex@widomaker.com

And Remember: AGA => AAA is the WAY!

@endnode

@node "history" "History of Screech"

The checkered history of Screech!

Screech V1.01

- Code completely written in Amos Amal.
- Version with several cars racing around a barren track.
- No fences or objects.
- No Start/Finish.

Screech V1.04

- Fences added.
- Skid algorythm created and implemented, for cornering and oil slicks.
- Computer car opponents set to 7 so that is can work on A1200 + Fast Ram.

Screech V1.30

- Major improvements to wall algorythm.
- First road target appears (The flag bearer!)
- Second Track begins to be created.

Screech V1.50

- Second track finished.
- Bugs killed in Fencing routine.
- Computer Car intelliegence is appalling, found to be too slow.

Screech V1.55

- Track 3 designed and implemented, soon trashed as it was boring.
- The fox is added to the road targets list.
- The Flag bearer is improved and some extra features added.

Screech V1.61

- Demo intro added.
- One track demo is created and added to the Aminet. (See my page for old
  version.)

Screech V1.70

- Wheel chair masochists are added in.
- First contact with Bradley Leffler.
- Total redoing of graphics for Track 1 and 2.

Screech V1.88

- The big decision is made, Screech is totally rewritten...in Blitz.
- New routines are written in Assembler that improve skidding, wall collision
  and car collision.
- Speed Increase is so great that game now works at full speed on a stock
  A1200.
- It is found that screwing with the copperlists allows for two player
  split screen racing.
- All graphics are redone by Bradley and look 10 times better.
- My budding career as a computer artist snuffed out before it begins! :'(

Screech V1.92

- New intro coded for demo.
- New overhead objects implemented without slowing the game down one bit.
- All bugs in scoreboard are fixed.  Allowing for times to be completely
  correct, instead of being that way most of the time.

Screech V1.97

- Jogger is created...need for more targets.
- Water is designed but not implemented.
- Spinning carousel is added to track 2.
- Track 3 is designed...the first monster track.

Screech V2.01

- Track 3 over and under passes are perfected allowing for cars to
  pass over and under each other.
- New over and under passes cause huge bugs to be implemented into little
  character routines.  Therefore all routines are rewritten to be more
  modular.  This allows for more little lunatics to be added easily.

Screech V2.05

- Skidmarks are thought of....only for one tyre.  But two is achieved.
  Initial implementation is BUGGED!

Screech V2.10

- Sent to bug testers, feedback reports of some memory fragmentation.
- Also disk IO is still being accessed when Multitasking swithched off.
  This causes random crashes.  Bug fixed.
- Water is added.
- Demo mode added and implemented.

Screech V2.12

- Version is released to Aminet with 2 full tracks and the third set in
  demo mode.
- Hidden bug in Water routine is not seen until after release.

Screech V2.14

- Water bug fixed as well as problem of cars being stuck on bridges.

Screech V2.15

- Flag waver now disappears under bridges.
- Start sequence is now added.

Screech V2.21

- Skid marks now diminish as skid continues.
- Trackdata modified so that cars are more aggressive.
- Drving on grass now slows you down faster and to a lower speed.
- Demo of information bar is added.

Screech V2.25

- Copperlists for displays have been changed so they are now more stable.
- More skids and blood now on the track!
- Found two horrible bugs that randomly caused crashes before the Finish
  Screen or the Menu appeared.  This should help diminish the little problems
  I have had here.

Screech V2.34

- The bug hunt, crunchmania is suspected as the culprit.

Screech V2.35

- Yep crunchmania is the problem, problem is now dead!

Screech V2.40

- Hopefully the last ECS version.
- Keyboard control and alternative joystick control added.
- Options so that gore and obstacles are switched off.

Screech V2.41

- Made the code modular so new tracks are fully intergratable into game.
- Added the MultiBar feature into game and menu.

Screech AGA V2.51

- Auto Detect tracks, as many as you want :)
- AGA blitting routines
- 128 colour gfx (See SPECIAL SECTION)

To Come..........

For those who register.

- Track 4 has been designed and hopefully will be implemented very soon.
- Track 5 is now in artist stage.
- Carrion eating birds to be added.
- 12 other tracks to be created.  Just register for the full version.
- Cracks in road.
- Better skid marks.
- More lunatics.
- Damage meters and other little improvements.
- The ZANY pit crew, smokers and petrol do not mix!
- Damage that affects performance.
- 100 laps plus races. (Boy the track should be unrecognisable!)

So Register.  $15 dollars Australian gets you the following.

Version currently being worked on.
Discounts on any other games by Insane Software as well as further updates.

That is :-

At the least 4 Tracks.
More features that haven't been seen in the Aminet release.

And also....

For Australians.

- 3 Full updates without Software Problems. Updates will always include
  additional tracks and bug fixes.

Other Countries.

- 2 Full bug fixes and all other features as per above.

For those who register later on you will be charged an additional $10
for any versions with more than 8 tracks in it.  It makes sense to Register!

@endnode

@node "Completion" "Screech Completion"

Help
----

Due to the lack of time I have and the fact that the graphic artist
does have the time to work on Screech I am asking for help to complete
the game.

At the moment I have 5 tracks in this version (v2.51) for which none are
complete.  The display works in 128 colours but only 32 of the 128 colours
are being used, so I leave up to anyone out there to complete the tracks.
If you would like to work on the gfx then please EMAIL me before doing so,
there are a few things to do discuss.

Some basic Rules and possiblities.
----------------------------------

The first 32 colours should not be tampered with.
The next 96 can be set to any colour as long as they do not touch the
track.
If a night track is to be done then the palette can be manipulated,
but write to get the full details.
If you wish to design your own tracks then please email me, you are free
to but I wish to make them compatiable with the game engine.

Hope to hear from you

Andrew Heap

@endnode
