@DATABASE "Virus Info Base"
@NODE MAIN "Digital Dream Installer"

        Name            : Digital Dream Trojan

        Aliases         : Jeff Viruskiller V2.67 Trojan

        Type/Size       : Virus Installer/ 9960 bytes

        Incidence       : 03-12-93

        Discovered      : 17-10-93

        Way to infect   : See below

        Rating          : Not very dangerous

        Kickstarts      : 2.04 too!

        Damage          : Install a bootblock virus

        Manifestiation  : See below

        Removal         : Delete this virus installer program

        General comments: 

        This  virus is original spreaden as a powerpacked file 6496 bytes.
        Unpacked  9960 bytes.   DigitalDreams pretend to be a virus killer
        for  the  Jeff  viruses,  but  false don't trust it, it installs a
        bootvirus.

     1. When  the Digital Dream is executed you will get a big red crosson
        a black background, and below at the screen you can read:  

                This  is  the:  Jeff-Viruskiller  V2.67  press  left
                mouse-button to continue.


        Click  on  this  gadget  to  see  a  @{" Demo " SYSTEM V-IFF:DigitalDream1}  of  the Digital Dream 
        installer program. Push left mouse button to return.



    2.  Then  you  get a blue/black  text on a grey background in the next
        screen and the following text:

                Jeff-Viruskiller V.2.67
                 
                Please  inset  a disk  in  drive  0.  Then press left 
                mouse-button to kill Jeff on it".


    3. If  you  don't  have an unprotected in this drive you will be asked
       to remove the write-protection!
                      

       Click  on this  gadget  to see a @{" Demo " SYSTEM V-IFF:DigitalDream2} of the text you get on your
       screen. Push left mouse button to return


       But  if the disk isn't write-protected the disk is already infected
       with  the  virus  long time before you have pressed the left mouse-
       button.

@ENDNODE 
