@DATABASE "Virus Info Base"
@NODE MAIN "DumDum"

     Name         : DUMDUM

     Aliases      : No Aliases

     Type/Size    : Boot/1024

     Clones       : No Clones 

     Symptoms     : No Symptoms

     Discovered   : 18-04-92

     Way to infect: Boot infection

     Rating       : Dangerous

     Kickstarts   : 1.2/1.3/2.0

     Damage       : Overwrites boot + Root Block!

     Removal      : Install boot.

     Comments     : If  you  are  booting  with a DUMDUM infected disk the
                    virus  changes the CoolCapture-Vector to stay resident
                    in the memory.  The virus patches the ZERO-PAGE ($64).
                    This  routine  will  always set the Coolcapture to the
                    virus  value.  The  virus  uses  the  DoIO()-Vector to
                    infect other disks.


                    Imagine you are now inserting a unprotected disk.  The
                    virus does the following:

                    1) Checks for write-protection Disk write-protected ->
                       End

                    2) Opens  the trackdisk.device to write the virus boot
                       on the disk (HD-User: No Damage to your HD!)

                    3) Sets the DoIO()-Vector to another routine.

                    Now imagine you are inserting another unprotected disk
                    then the virus does the following:

                    1) Checks for write-protection.  Disk write-protected:
                       ALERT See below (Point 4)

                    2) Formats the RootBlock of the disk.

                    3) Sets  the  DoIO()-Vector to the first routine. (See
                       above !)

                    4 ) If disk is write-protected the virus gives out the
                       the following alert:


                     "You are the owner of a DUMDUM virus please unprotect
                     disk to kill!"



                    Click  on  this  gadget  to see a @{" Demo " SYSTEM V-IFF:DumDum} of the DumDum
                    virus. Push left mouse button to return.

                    In the top of the bootblock you can read:

                    "DUMDUMBYGOD"

                    The alert-text can also be read in the bootblock.
A.D 05-94
@ENDNODE
