@database NedIcons3

@node main "Ned's Icons Pack #3"
Ned's Icons Pack #3

Here I am again for my third contribution ot the great BNS MWB Icons packs !

First, I have to apologize for my previous guide : some links are missing and you have to view
them manually.
I hope I won't repeat this in the current guide :|

In this pack you'll find far less icons than in the previous one. But just go ahead.

@{" Disclaimer " link 1}
@{" Author " link 2}

I believe that you'll find out by yourself that most of the icons are reworked from existing ones.

Also, you should note that I redrew some icons according to a slightly modified Monitor brush.
I remade these icons after writing most of this guide, so you won't find description of them in
the links. And as I don't want to add them all to the guide, you'll have to live with it :)

Well, as I am tired of making links only to tell "In this drawer you'll find a reworked icon",
I'll just describe the whole stuff.

Apart from the redrawn existing icon, you'll find:
- some DOpus icons for toolbars. Note that they're icons, so when you want to use them, don't
forget to put the ".info" extension. They're icon and not brushes because I wanted to have two
states (and I'm too lazy to draw animbrushes).
- a new HD icon requested by BNS (the icon is a project one. DON'T copy it directly over a disk
icon but use Swazinfo or similar prog).
- icons featuring the new (and great!) ARexx crown design.
- a crappy Voyager-NG icon. Sorry, didn't know what to draw so I made quite a basic icon.
I'll try to draw a new one for next pack.

@endnode

@node 1 "Legal stuff"
Well, I'm not, in any way, responsible of anything these icons could make to you. If you blow
your computer/brain/whatever when using or installing that stuff, don't try to make me pay for
damages.

It's bloody annoying to write this kind of things but I believe it has to be done...
@endnode

@node 2 "I, me and myself"
The impostor who's trying to make you think he created all of these is

Brice Terzaghi, aka Ned
S-mail: 2d rue St Martin, 90330 Chaux / France
E-mail: amigang@club-internet.fr

Don't mailbomb him 'cause he's me and I wouldn't appreciate. Thanks.

But if you want to tell me how great is my job, you'll be welcome :)
@endnode

