@database Printer.guide
@remark ENGLISH VERSION
@author Kevin Winspear
@(c) "Copyright © 1994 K.Winspear."
@$VER: Printer.guide(29/06/94)
@wordwrap
@font topaz.font 8

@node "Printer"
@toc "o.l.h.files:dohelp.guide/main"

                                Printer

        Allows you to select a printer driver from those available in the
DEVS/Printer drawer.

Paper Length:-

                Determines the total number of lines on the page, including
top and bottom margins, For instance if you are using 11 inch long paper
with 6 lines to an inch (set with the Print Spacing gadget), you will have
66 lines on your page.

Left Margin:-

                Determines the width of the left margin the number of
characters from the left edge of the paper to where you want the text to
start printing. For instance, if you want a one inch margin, and you are
using 10 pitch type, enter 10.

Right Margin:-

                Determines the width of the right margin the number of
characters from the left hand edge of the paper to where you want the right
margin to begin. For instance, if your paper is 8.5 inches wide, and you're
using 10 characters per inch, you can fit 85 characters across the page
(10 x 8.5). To leave a one-inch right margin, subtract 10 characters from
the right edge of the paper. The right margin would be 75.

Printer Port:-

                Specifies the Amiga port where you have attached your
printer. This is either Serial or Parallel.

Paper Type:-

                Specifies the type of paper you are using. The options are
Fanfold (continuous-feed paper) or Single (individual sheets).

Paper Size:-

                Specified the size of paper you are using.

Print Pitch:-

                Pitch refers to the number of characters printed in 1 inch
of horizontal text, the higher the number, the smaller the space between
characters. You can choose from 10, 12, or 15 characters per inch.

Print Spacing:-

                Spacing refers to how many lines of text are printed in 1
vertical inch of space. You can select 6 lines per inch (1pi) or 81pi. The
higher the number, the less space there is between the lines.

Print Quality:-

                Determines the quality of the printout. Selecting Draft
gives you a lower-quality printout but faster printing. Selecting Letter
gives you a higher-quality printout but slower printing.


Project Menu:-
                The Project menu options let you save the editor settings
to a specific file and open previously saved files.


   OPEN:-       Loads the information from a specified preset file.


   SAVE AS:-    Specify the preset file in which to save the currently
                displayed settings. the requester provides a default file
                name in the Presets drawer. If you want to change it, type
                in the complete path to a different file and select OK.


   QUIT:-       Exit the editor without performing any changes, Same as the
                Cancel gadget.

Edit Menu:-
                The Edit menu option allows you to restore previously used
                settings of the default settings.


RESET TO DEFAULT:-      Returns the editor setting to the default settings.


LAST SAVED:-            Returns the editor settings to the last setting you
                        saved.


RESTORE:-               Returns the editor to the setting displayed when
                        the editor first opened.

Setting Menu:-
                The settings menu contains the Create Icons? item that
allows you to save project icons representing your editor setting in the
same drawer as your files. For example, if you save printer specifications
to the SYS:Prefs/Presets/Printer.pro file, the icon for the file appears
in the Presets window.


                        @{"     "  system  "Extrasx.x:prefs600/printer600.pic"}  See 2.x Printer Picture
                        @{"     " system "Extrasx.x:prefs1200/printer1200.pic"}  See 3.x Printer Picture
                        @{"     " link "o.l.h.files:dohelp.guide/prefs"}  Now I Know? 



@endnode

