@database PrepCard.guide
@remark ENGLISH VERSION
@author Kevin Winspear
@(c) "Copyright © 1994 K.Winspear."
@$VER: PrepCard.guide(29/06/94)
@wordwrap
@font topaz.font 8

@node Main "PreCard"

                                PrepCard

        PrepCard only runs on Amigas equipped with a PCMCIA card slot and
enables you to prepare PCMCIA "credit card" memory cards. You can prepare
standard static RAM cards as either a disk device or as system RAM.

        When prepared as a disk, the card behaves just like any other disk,
and files can be saved to and loaded from it. You can rename and reformed
the card from the Workbench, just as with a normal disk, once it's been
prepared by PrepCard, It's device name is CC0:. The battery backup on the
card ensures that when you remove the card or turn off the Amiga the
information is retained on the card.

        If you prepare the card as system RAM the card adds to the memory
pool of your Amiga, meaning you can load programs which require more memory
to run, or run more programs when multitasking. Card memory is added to
both Chip (graphics) and Fast (other) memory. Once you've prepared the card
as system RAM you must reboot your Amiga before it's recognized as such.
Make sure that you don't write-protect a card that's being used as RAM, as
this will lock up your Amiga and you'll have to reboot.

        Double-click on the PrepCard icon and a window is displayed. Click
on one of the gadgets at the bottom of the window, "Prepare as DISK" or
"Prepare as System RAM", to prepare the and as you wish. A requester
appears to warn you that information on the card, if any, will be lost.
Click Continue to prepare the card, or Cancel to abort the preparation.
Ensure that the card is not write-protected before you start the
preparation process.

        The rest of the window gives you information about the size and
other information  about the card that you've inserted. You cannot run
PrepCard if a card is already being used as RAM. To run the program in this
case, reboot your Amiga without the card inserted (removing the card will
immediately reboot the Amiga) and insert the card when your Amiga has
booted up. There is an Advanced Settings menu, which enables you to alter a
number of low-level card configuration parameters. Only change these
setting if you sufficient technical knowledge, as improper settings prevent
the card from functioning properly. To exit PrepCard, click on the Quit
icon at the bottom of the window.



                        @{"     " system
"extrasx.x:Tools600/Prepcard600.pic"}  See Prepcard Picture
                        @{"     " quit}  Now I Know? (Close Window)





@endnode

k
