@DATABASE "Virus Info Base"
@NODE MAIN "F.A.S.T. 1"     
     Name         : F.A.S.T. 1

     Aliases      : No Aliases

     Type/Size    : Boot/1024

     Clone        : No Clones

     Symptoms     : An alert will be shown

     Discovered   : 26-12-90

     Way to infect: Boot infection

     Rating       : Harmeless

     Kickstarts   : 1.2/1.3

     Damage       : Overwrites boot.

     Removal      : Install boot.

     Comments     : The F.A.S.T. 1  virus  is  a  very  harmless virus. It
                    always  copies  itself  to  the  same  memory  address
                    ($7f000).  It patches the DoIO() and FreeMem()-Vector.
                    The DoIO()-Patch is used to infect other disks and the
                    FreeMem()-Patch  sets  the  coolcapture  always to the
                    virus value.

                    After After the counter in the bootblock has reached 10
                    an alert will pop up with the following text:


                                  W A R N I N G

                     If you pirate software you are a thief.
                         Thieves will be prosecuted.
                      Any information should be passed to:
                      The Federation Against Software Theft
                         Telephone: +44-1-240-6756

                          P I R A C Y   I S   T H E F T
 

                    Click on this gadget to see a  @{" Demo " SYSTEM V-IFF:FAST} of the  F.A.S.T 
                    virus. Push left mouse button to return.



                    You  cannot  read  this alert in the bootblock because
                    its  always  coded  depending of on byte from $DFF006.
                    The  virus only infects your disk if you are trying to
                    write a bootblock on it.  In the decoded bootblock you
                    can read the following text: 

                    Note  to Paranoimia: The early release of X-Out was no
                    exception  so  stop  pretending  that you "help" us by
                    delaying cracks.

A.D 02-94 & TBH 04-94
@ENDNODE
