@DATABASE "Virus Info Base"
@NODE MAIN "SCA 1"

     Name         : SCA

     Aliases      : No Aliases

     Type/Size    : Boot/1024

     Clones       : Too many clones to list them all here.

     Symptoms     : No Symptoms

     Discovered   : 15-11-87  Elmshorn Germany

     Way to infect: Boot infection

     Rating       : Harmless

     Kickstarts   : 1.2/1.3/2.0

     Damage       : Overwrites boot.

     Manifestation: -

     Removal      : Install boot.

     Comments     : The  SCA-Virus  is a very simply one. It copies itself
                    to $7EC00 and patches the Cool-Vector to stay resident
                    resident  in memory.  After a reset the virus uses the
                    DoIO()-Vector to infect other disks.


                    BORING,  isn`t it?  What  is  the special thing of the
                    really  boring  virus ??? Yes.  You  have  guessed it!
                    The  SCA-Virus  was the FIRST real AMIGA-virus. It was
                    created by a group of SWISS Crackers called the:

                    (S)wiss (C)racking (A)ssociation.


                    Some old cool dudes from the scene will recognize them
                    and their productions.  As this virus was created more
                    and more good coders raped their ability to code more,
                    more  and  more viruses (Byte Bandit and Byte Warrior)
                    are also little "legends" besides the SCA.


                    As  you  can  think by yourself the SCA-Virus was very
                    wide  spreaden  by  swappers  and especially on the so
                    called  "Copy-Parties" from the sceners.  In that time
                    nobody  knows much about the topic "Amiga-Viruses", so
                    nearly every Amiga-User was infected.


                    The  same dudes which coded the SCA virus before, gave
                    out  a  special  SCA-Killer. Yes, a virus killer which
                    should kill a virus done by the same person, who maked
                    the SCA virus before.


                    Click on this gadget to see a @{" Demo " SYSTEM V-IFF:SCA-Protector} of the very first
                    Amiga Virus Killer. Click left mouse button to return.


                    The  SCA-Virus and his virus killer was probably coded
                    by a man called 'CHRIS'

                    I  don`t  know  exactlty if it is the CODENAME or his 
                    real  name.  In a very old TRISTAR-Demo this virus was
                    discussed by the just formed TRISTAR crew. I the 
                    greetingslist you can read:


                    "SCA  (Hey CHRIS! we are thinking that your SCA-Virus 
                    is great. But we also think that we are the only one."


                    Or  something like that.  Make your own picture of the
                    the SCA-Virus.


                    Ohh! I forgot to say that the virus gives out a GFX-
                    message every 15th infection:

                             "Something wonderful has happened"
                                  "Your AMIGA is alive !!!"
                                     ", and even better"
                              "Some of you disks are infected"
                                       "by a VIRUS !!!"
                                    "Another masterpiece of"
                                    "The Mega-Mighty SCA !!"

A.D 08-94
@ENDNODE
