@database Beginners_AingaDOS.guide
@remark ENGLISH VERSION
@author Kevin Winspear
@(c) "Copyright © 1994 K.Winspear."
@$VER: BeginnersAmigaDOS.guide(29/06/94)
@wordwrap
@font topaz.font 8

@node "Beginners AmigaDOS"
@toc "shell/main"
                          BEGINNERS TO AMIGADOS.

        No one could possibly argue that the Amiga's Workbench is
underpowered, especially when compared to WIMP system on the PC's and Macs
of this world, but it won't let you do everything. Sure, the Workbench
provides a nice and easy method of carrying out those day to day computing
chores such as formatting disks, copying files etc, but if you want to
really get your hands dirty, you need to get to grips with the AmigaDOS
shell environment.

        As your skills with the Amiga begin to develop, you'll gradually
find that the Workbench is just too simple to handle every task that you
throw at it. Even the ultra-powerful version of Workbench bundled with all
Amigas since the release of the A1200 won't let you do everything.
Commodore's software engineers knew this too which is why the Amiga also
supports another method of controlling your it's operation - the AmigaDOS
Shell. The Shell provides you with a simple method of accessing the power
of the Amiga's Disk Operating System (AmigaDOS), the part of the Amiga's
low level operating system (the Amiga 'brain', if you like) that is solely
responsible for handling disk drives. AmigaDOS doesn't run programs - it
just handles the transfer of data to and from your Amiga's floppy and hard
drive.

        AmigaDOS itself is nothing more than a collection of routines  
built into Amiga's ROM which obviously can't be accessed by the user. 
The Amiga does, however, allow you to make use of these powerful routines 
via the Shell which is a program that acts as a mediator between you and 
your Amiga's disk operating system. This power does come at a price, 
however - gone are the fancy icons, easy to use pull down menus and the 
blatantly obvious mouse control offered by the Amiga's Workbench.

        Don't let this put you off. Using the Shell isn't that frightening.
Using the Shell is a bit like using computers of old - instead of pointing
and clicking on icons, everything you want the Amiga to do must be entered
via keyboard in the form of a command. Very few of these commands are
actually built into the Amiga - most of them are on your Workbench. Hidden
away on your Workbench disk is a drawer called C (short for Commands) that
contains an almost bewildering number of tiny programs files specifically
designed for use with the Shell. Each of these programs performs a
particular task - there's a command to copy a file, a command to delete a
file and so on.

LIVING SHELL:-

        Accessing the Shell is very easy indeed. Simply boot up your Amiga
with your Workbench disk, double click on the Workbench disk icon and the
contents of the Workbench will be displayed. Lurking somewhere within the
Workbench window should be an icon labelled Shell - double click on this
and a window should appear containing nothing more than the text 'SYS'
followed by a orange-coloured cursor. Try typing your name and then press
the return key - if all went well, the Amiga should have responded with
your name followed by the line: Unknown command.

        So what happened? Put simply, each time the 'SYS' prompt appears
on the screen, the Amiga is waiting for you to give it something to do.
When you enter a command, the Amiga checks through the list of Shell
commands that it has in its C directory and if the first word in the
instruction that you pass it matches the name of one of its commands, that
command is executed. If, on the other hand, you enter something that it
doesn't understand, it will display the 'unknown command' error message
followed by the 'SYS' prompt again.

        Each time you enter a line of text into the Shell, it splits the
command down into the individual words that form the command. If, for
example, you entered, 'format my disk', the Shell would split this into
three words: format, my and disk. The fist word in the line (format) is
treated as the name of the command and the two words that proceed it are
treated as parameters. Parameters are simply instructions that are passed
to the command that you've entered. AmigaDOS isn't at all interested in the
parameters that you pass, so it's therefore down to the command itself to
make sure that the parameters that you pass are acceptable. If you pass
parameters to a command that aren't acceptable, it's the command itself
that will display an error message and not AmigaDOS.

COMMAND PERFORMANCE:-

        Right, now that we've discussed the basics of working with Shell,
let's get stuck into some common Shell commands. The Shell offers an almost
bewildering array of commands that will allow you to perform the same disk
maintenance tasks that the Workbench makes so simple plus a whole lot more
besides. You can format disks, copy disks, copy files to and from disks,
delete files, create directories. In fact if you can think of a disk
operation, chances are that AmigaDOS has a command that can handle it. What
follows is a brief description of some of the most common Shell commands
that you'll need to master in order to get the most from the Shell. So
without further ado.

CD <PATHNAME>:-

        The CD command changes the current directory. That is, the
directory you are currently working in. When you fist load the Shell
program, the current directory is always set to the root directory of your
boot disk, be it your hard disk or Workbench disk. If you want to work on
the files in another directory, however, it's much simpler to change the
current directory setting using the CD command then it is to keep on typing
in the directory's pathname. All you have to do is give the CD command the
pathname of the directory that you'd like the current directory changed to.

        Say, for example, you wanted to work on the files in a directory
called MyDir on a disk called MyDisk. Instead of having to type
MyDisk:MyDir/ Filename for every file you wished to work on, you could
simply type CD MYDisk:MyDir and the current directory will change to that
directory. You can now access the files in that directory without having to
enter the full pathname.

COPY <SOURCEFILE> TO <DESTINATIONFILE>:-

        The copy command is used to make a copy of a file either from one
disk to another or to another directory on the same disk. Using wildcards,
you can even use the Copy command to copy a whole batch of files. Using the
Copy command is very simple indeed - simply feed it the filename of the
file that you want to copy (complete with its path, if necessary) and the 
name of the directory that you'd like to copy the file to and AmigaDOS 
will do the rest.

        If you simply specify a path as the destination, the file will be
copied using its original filename but if you specify a new filename, the
copied file will use that filename instead. Say, for example, you wanted to
copy a file called Jim to a disk called Fred: - all you'd have to do is to
enter, 'Copy Jim to Fred:' The Copy command would then produce an exact
copy of the file called Jim onto the disk called Fred. If, on the other
hand, you entered 'Fred:MyNewFile' for the destination, the copy of Jim
would automatically be renamed as 'MyNewFile'.

DELETE <FILE>:-

        The purpose of the delete command is pretty obvious but for those
of you who are less perceptive, its sole role in life is to remove files
and/or drawers from your disks. Using the delete command is very simple
indeed - all you need to do is to feed it the filename of the file that
you'd like to delete. Say, for example, you wanted to delete a file called
MyFile on a disk called MyDisk. Not surprisingly, all you'd have to enter
is, 'delete MyDisk:MyFile' and the file is history!

        The delete command can handle wild cards as well, so it's perfectly
possible to delete entire collections of files in one foul sweep. Be very
careful when using wildcards with this command thought - if you have a file
that is important to you that matches the wildcard pattern for the files
that you're deleting, it will be deleted too if it's in the same directory.

        Deleting drawers is somewhat more involved. The delete command has
an extra optional called 'ALL' that can tell the command to delete not only
a directory, but its contents too. If, for example, you wanted to delete a
drawer called MyDrawer on a disk called Fred, all you'd have to enter is,
'Delete Fred:MyDrawer All' - it's as simple as that!

TYPE <FILE>:-

        The type command comes in very handy when you need to display the
contents of a text file. Simply by passing it the filename if the text file
that you'd like to display, the 'type' command will display it within the
Shell window. If the text is longer than the total length of the Shell
window, the text will scroll up the screen until the entire contents of the
file have been displayed. You can halt the scroll at any point, however,
simply by pressing the space key and you can resume the scroll by pressing
the Backspace key. Fancy an example? Okay, give this a try - Type
S:Startup-Sequence. This command displays a file called Startup-Sequence
which is held in the S directory of your boot disk. FORMAT DRIVE <Device>
NAME <DISKNAME> Not surprisingly, the format command does exactly the same
job as the format disk... option on the Workbench but the whole process is
carried out within the current shell window. Simply feed it the name of the
disk drive that the disk is in and the name that you'd like to give the 
disk and AmigaDOS will prepare the disk for use. Note the extra DRIVE and  
NAME bits - although these serve no useful purpose, AmigaDOS insists that 
they are added so that the name of the device and the name that you'd like 
to give the disk are kept separate.

        Say, for example, you wanted to format a disk that was in the
internal drive and give it the name MyDisk. You would therefore enter,
'Format DRIVE Df0: NAME MyDisk'. Be very careful when formatting disks - if
you format a disk that contains important files, they'll be lost forever
once AmigaDOS starts to format the disk.

DISKCOPY <SURCEDEVICE> TO <DESTINATIONDISK>:-

        Talk about bloomin' obvious! Guess what the 'DiskCopy' command
dose? That's right - it orders you a pizza...er, it copies the entire
contents of one disk to another. Just like the 'Format' command, it
requires two parameters - the name of the floppy drive holding the source
disk (the disk that you want to copy) and the name of the drive holding the
disk that you'd like it copied to. Even if you only have a single drive on
your Amiga, you can still use the Diskcopy command - simply specify the
same source and destination drive name and the Amiga will prompt you to
swap disks whenever necessary. Don't worry - coping an entire disk takes no
more than four or so disk swaps.

        Unlike other machines we could mention, the Amiga doesn't
automatically assume that the destination disk has already been formatted,
so you can copy a disk to an unformatted disk. Because the Amiga copies the
disk at a very low level, even the format of the source disk is copied too!
If you're thinking about pirating games, a word of warning - most games are
copy protected so attempting to copy a game disk using the Diskcopy command
will not work. Anyway, this sort of thing is very immoral so don't be
tempted - the more games you copy, the less chance you have that Amiga
games programmers will continue to produce state of the art games for your
machine!

                               @{"     " link "Shell/Main"}  Return


@endnode


