@database "Virus Info Base"
@node main "Multilator"

     Name         : Mutilator

     Aliases      : No Aliases

     Type/Size    : Boot/1024

     Clones       : No Clones 

     Symptoms     : No Symptoms

     Discovered   : 13-10-92

     Way to infect: Boot infection

     Rating       : Harmless

     Kickstarts   : Only 1.3 with RANGER RAM ! ($C00000)

     Damage       : Overwrites boot.

     Manifestation: A GFX-Routine

     Removal      : Install boot.

     Comments     : The Mutilator Virus only works on a few systems.
                    As you can see above the virus needs Kickstart 1.3
                    and a special (FAST)Ram called `Ranger Ram`.
                    People who are booting with an infected disk and
                    who can`t afford the above mentioned conditions will
                    see a GURU ! But if you have such a Ram + Kickstart
                    the virus will do the following:


                   1) The virus copies itself at $7FAD0 and changes the
                      coolcapture-vector to stay resident.
   
                    After the next reset the virus patches the DoIO() &
                    the Supervisor()-Vector.

                    The DoIO()-Patch is used to infect other disks.
                    Every time when the Supervisor()-Vector is used by
                    the system, the virus increases a value by 1. If
                    this value reaches 224 (and an other 160) the virus
                    executes a GFX-Routine with an endless-loop. But
                    this routine has an programming-error (Color-Initial
                    Routine is the last S..t!), so you will get an black
                    screen.


                    After 3 infects the virus gives out an alert:

                         "THIS IS THE NEW MUTILATOR VIRUS !"
                               "BY MAX OF STARLIGHT!"

                    This text is crypted, you CAN'T read it in the BB.


                    Click on this gadget to see a  little @{" Demo " SYSTEM V-IFF:Multilator} of the 
                    Multilator virus. Push left mouse button to return.



                    There is another crypted text in the BB which says
                    after decryption:


                    "Thanx to The Executors for Spreading this GREAT code
                    ! done: -1992-"


                    NOTE FROM ALEX: Sorry Max, I must laugh now. This 
                    piece of shit is just lame coded. (You`re very 
                    likely a Lamer, too.)

A.D 07-94
@endnode
