@database "Amiga Technology Brief"
@wordwrap
@node main "Amiga Technology Brief"

@{b}Amiga Technology Brief@{ub}

Well, the Amiga Technology Brief document has been released to the
public on the Amiga website. We're not allowed to print it since it's
not open, or freely distributable. You can find it online at

@{b}http://www.amiga.com/diary/executive/tech_brief.html@{ub}

We can, however, deliver the open letter from Jim Collas, in which
he introduces the technology brief and explains some of the
thinking behind it. You can read that by clicking @{"here" link 2}.

So, since Amiga have decided not to let us print the Technology
Brief, that's given us even more work to do, evaluating it all
and telling you, in our own words, what it means. How irritating :)
So, here we go then. Click @{"here" link 3} to read our report.

And, in true WOA tradition, we've got a few opinions from various
peeople around the net. Firstly, Rick LeFaivre of Amiga Inc has
been posting to comp.sys.amiga.misc regarding the new system
and the tech brief. You can read his posting @{"here" link 4}.

@endnode
@node 2 "Open Letter"

@{b}Open Letter from Jim Collas@{ub}

@endnode
@node 3 "Report"

@{b}World Of Amiga Technology Brief Report@{ub}

Amiga start by saying that the mission of Amiga is to make computers
and the Internet a natural part of everyday life. Sounds fun. They
then go on about the Operating Enviornment and say what exactly it
is. They say the term operating environment is used "purposely,
as this software infrastructure extends the traditional operating
system to provide a host environment for a new class of portable
applications that exist in a pervasive networked computing
environment."

Ok, that's very long, but you get the idea. The OE is like an OS
but contains an environment for applications on a network. Easy.

Aparently, Amiga are working on two products at the moment. That
is the Amiga OE and the Amiga MCC (Operating Environment and
Multimedia Convergence Computer, respectively). AmigaObjects
are the building blocks for all OE Services, and allow developers
to rapidly create "impressive and powerful Amiga applications".

Amiga have chosen Java as their primary programming language for
portable applications based on AmigaObjects, with C and C++ also
featuring in the equation, but only for creating MCC native
programs. With no mention of Assembler, but I would imagine that
it'll be available in some form eventually, with possible versions
of BASIC and other languages being created after a while.

Aparrently, Java will allow AmigaObject technology can be embedded
in anything from PalmTop units to full scale server machines. "This
is a truly revolutionary, an approach that we truly beleive will
change the face of computing."

They say the widespread acceptance of OpenGL makes it their primary
choice for their 3D graphics API, although an announcement after
the Tech brief said that there may be problems with it, and they are
still investigating which 3D API to use.

Here is the spec of the computer they intend to release:

Processing Subsystem

    High-performance Next Generation CPU (Possibly Transmeta or MIPS)
       Hardware assistance for Linux Kernel, Java Virtual Machine and
        Classic Amiga Emulation.

    168 pin SDRAM DIMMs -- future support for DDR SDRAM

    32MB system RAM -- expandable to 288MB (ATX goal to be expandable
     to 1GB). Note that this may seem low, but if the MCC is anywhere
     near as efficient as the current Amiga, that's all the memory
     it will need.

Graphics Subsystem

    Advanced SuperScalar 2 and 3 dimensional rendering. Specs of the
     actual chipset are subject to a non-disclosure agreement.

    24 bit colour depth, resolutions up to 1920x1200!

    32MB 128-bit SDRAM frame buffer

Audio/Video

    DVD drive standard (DVD-RAM when available)

    DVD Playback including
       MPEG 2 hardware decoding
       Hardware subpicture decoder

    Real time video compression including MPEG2

    Still image captrue accelleration

    Analogue TV: PAL/NTSC/Secam input, digitisation and TV outputs

    S-Video and composite video I/O

    Full channel TV tuner

    44kHz, 16-bit CD stereo audio I/O

    AC-3 Dolby Digital 5.1 channel decode

    S/PDIF Dolby Digital Output

    FM radio tuner under consideration

Communications Options (In Development)

    V90 56K/sec modem

    100/10MB/Sec Ethernet

    HomePNA 2.0 10Mn/Sec home networking

    Wireless 2.4GhZ digital networking

    Broadband Internet Options
       1.5MB/sec cable modem
       DSL modem
       ISDN modem
       Digital satellite decoders

Mass Storage

    2 UltraDMA E-IDE interfaces (supports 4 drives)

    Support for 2 high capacity hard drives

Expansion Options (Internal)

    2 PCI Slots

    3.5" open bay for Zip/Jaz/120Mb Floppy or others

I/O

    Infrared for remote control devices

    Microphone input

    Display touch screen controller

    7 USB 10Mb/s digital ports (2 in front for easy access)

    Investigating 1394 option


Sounds good? Send us your opinions. woa@trogsoft.freeserve.co.uk


Java is a Trademark or Sun Microsystems
The Amiga name and Logo, and AmigaObjects are Trademarks of Amiga.

@endnode
@node 4 "Rick LeFaivre"

Subject: Note from the Amiga R&D Team
   Date: Mon, 19 Jul 1999 03:29:17 GMT
   From: Rick LeFaivre <rickl@amiga.com>

  Very interesting and active debate over the past two weeks. We *love*
the passion of (most of ;-)) the on-line community.  Linux?  X- Windows?
PCI?  USB?  MIDI?  Floppy Drive?  ATI graphics, etc., etc.  While an
overwhelming percentage of our email is quite positive about Amiga's
directions, there are those who have raised quite legitimate technical
concerns, and a small percentage who are just bashing everything we do
(more on them later).

  One positive aspect of the Linux announcement is the huge influx of
technical talent into the Amiga camp from the Linux community.  There are
legitimate issues with Linux, as anyone with a technical background will
acknowledge.  One positive aspect of the Linux phenomenon is that there
are hundreds of thousands of programmers out there working to fix those
problems.  There are also hundreds of companies working on applications
and drivers (and hardware) for Linux, that we can immediately tap into.
Yes, there are integration and testing issues to work on, but there are
many, many more positives than negatives.  Please understand that the
Linux decision was not purely (actually not mostly) a technical decision.
It was a decision driven by a reasoned analysis of what underlying OS
would give Amiga the greatest chance to succeed in the marketplace, and as
a company.

  Also understand that we have not yet seen a single technical issue
raised in the news groups that we are not already aware of, and working on
either inside of Amiga or through partners.  Will the Amiga MCC under
development be perfect?  Of course not -- product development is all about
tradeoffs.  When it is shipping, will it be at the heart of the best
distributed multimedia computing environment in the marketplace in terms
of price/performance/usability?  Yes!  Even more important, the MCC is
only one piece of a much broader strategy that we have chosen to not
really discuss yet.  When Jim Collas talks about revolutions, it's not a
revolution in terms of what happens to be inside the MCC box (although
some of the unannounced components are, indeed, revolutionary); it's the
entire distributed home computing/Internet environment and experience that
will be revolutionary as it rolls out over the coming year.  DON'T JUST
FOCUS ON BOXES AND OPERATING SYSTEMS!  (sorry for shouting.)

  So, to those of you raising legitimate technical concerns, we will do
our best to communicate solutions as they are worked out.  Better yet,
help us track down those solutions.  Linux is getting better every week,
with issues getting resolved at an amazing pace.  ATI may not be able to
ship their new graphics/video accelerator (which looks great)  on time,
and rest assured that we're also looking at 3dfx and NVidea.  Yes, there
will be a floppy drive (probably a 1.44MB / 120MB combo).  We're working
on the sound/MIDI requirements.  We're listening to proactive suggestions,
and will do our best to manage the inevitable tradeoffs to create the best
next-generation system we can.

  To the small number of individuals who have been sending vulgar,
threatening hatemail because you don't like what we're doing, and have
announced that you're fed up and are leaving the Amiga community, goodbye.
Millions and millions of people will purchase Amiga-branded and
Amiga-compliant products over the coming years, and we're sorry you won't
be among them.

  Rick LeFaivre, Allan Havemose, and the Amiga R&D Team


@endnode




